Born the same day at the start of the 20th century, 27 January 1901, Alfredo Berlinghieri and Olmo Dalcò come from opposite ends of the social spectrum. Alfredo is from a family of landowners led by his abusive but populist grandfather, while Olmo is an illegitimate peasant son off the estate whose grandfather, Leo, is the foreman and peasants strong man who verbally and spiritually carries a duel of wits but without reaching violence ever with Alfredo's. As Alfredo is somewhat rebellious and despises the falseness of his family, in particular his weak but cynical father, he befriends Olmo, who was raised as a socialist. The two are friends throughout their childhood, despite the social differences of their families. Olmo enlists with the Italian army in 1917 during World War I and goes off to fight while Alfredo learns how to run his family's large plantation under the guidance of his father. Olmo returns from the war over a year later and his friendship with Alfredo continues. However, Alfredo's father has hired Attila Mellanchini as his foreman. A sadistic man who becomes taken with fascism, Attila eventually incorporates his new belief system in his dealings with the Berlinghieri workers; he treats them cruelly and later cages them in the Berlinghieri compound and accuses them of treason against fascist Italy. Several are killed by Attila himself. As the new padrone  of the plantation, Alfredo does little to challenge or halt Attila's actions. During the late 1920s, the intimacy and lack thereof in their respective relationships with others is highlighted in their love lives. Alfredo marries a gorgeous, demure woman while Olmo marries Anita, who like him shares in the enthusiasm of the cause of workers' rights. Alfredo’s wife, Ada, sinks into alcoholism when confronted with the reality of the emptiness of her relationship with Alfredo. Anita, a strong and independent spirit dies tragically in childbirth, bringing another member into the community. As Olmo takes on his fateful role of leader among the poor farmers and their families, he clashes with Attila. The power, however, shifts after World War II in 1945, and the ruling class is at the mercy of the jovial and bitter peasants in the agricultural estate. As padrone, Alfredo is captured by a teenage peasant boy carrying a rifle. Attila is also captured when he and his wife, the equally cruel and sadistic Regina, try to flee the region. Attila is stabbed, non-fatally, several times by women wielding pitchforks and is imprisoned in the Berlinghieri pig sty. He is later executed by the peasants , who have discovered that Attila had raped and killed a young boy  several years prior in a fit of rage and had also murdered a wealthy landowner's widow, Mrs. Pioppi , in order to steal her land and home, also [years earlier] Attila had several peasants massacred after they threw horse manure at Atilla for "selling" Olmo. Olmo made Atilla eat manure and let him go. Olmo then had to leave town to keep from being killed by the fascists. Alfredo fires Attila, when Attila and his blackshirts seek vengeance on Olmo by tearing up Olmo's house. Alfredo is brought before Olmo's workers tribunal to stand trial. Many workers come forth and accuse Alfredo of letting them suffer in squalor while he  profited from their labors. Alfredo is sentenced to death, but his execution is prevented after Olmo explains that the padrone is dead, so Afredo Berlinghieri is alive. Suggesting that the social system has been overthrown with the end of the war. As soon as the verdict is reached, however, representatives of the new government, which includes the Communist Party, arrive and call on the peasants to turn in their arms. Olmo convinces the peasants to do so, overcoming their skepticism. Alfredo declares, "The padrone lives." Historically, apparently, in Sicily, -- the socialists  came close to achieving political dominance through elections by the sheer force of their numbers; however these efforts were subverted by the usual techniques of murder, intimidation, economic extortion, and bribery -- by "mafioso" . Mafioso who had been captured and imprisoned by the socialist for their crimes against the peasants, were released and given high level government positions -- by the American occupation force, who were told that these imprisoned criminals were patriots serving democracy. "socialists" were branded as evil communists. Sicily was thus returned to its former system of dominance by elite landowners .