After allowing fugitive Dominic Toretto  to evade arrest , former LAPD officer Brian O'Conner  finds himself on the run from LAPD and FBI and leaves Los Angeles, California to start a new life. He travels along the U.S., racing against the locals using a silver Nissan Skyline GT-R R34 and the driving skills he learned as a member of Toretto's now disbanded crew, earning money for the trip. After traveling for few days, he arrives in Miami, Florida. There, he makes new friends with Tej Parker , an ex-street racer and organizer who leads a top racing garage and is the man-to-know in Miami, and Jimmy , a well-known car tuner who works with Tej, as well as Suki , also a street racer, and now lives in a small cot near his garage. Brian has now modified his Skyline to top grade. He has also added details and under glow lights to give it a stunning look. He takes his skyline to the streets of Miami, and after a while he is given the credit of being the best racer there is. One night after winning a race, he is caught by US Customs agents after his car is disabled by the grappling hook-like ESD  deployed by U.S. Customs Agent Markham . He is arrested and his former boss FBI Agent Bilkins  makes a deal with him, saying that if he accepts to take part in a mission, his criminal record will be wiped clean. O'Connor and Bilkins then travel to Barstow, California, where O'Connor persuades his childhood friend and ex-convict Roman Pearce  to help him. Their mission involves working undercover as street racers for Argentinian drug lord Carter Verone , with help from Monica Fuentes , an undercover U.S. Customs agent who has become Carter's love interest. Pearce and O'Connor win an "audition" race and are selected for Verone's job, a money laundering run. Once O'Connor and Pearce embark on the mission with Verone's money in their cars' trunks, and two of Verone's henchmen riding along, police are called in. O'Connor and Pearce lead the police to a warehouse complex, which the police surround. Tej, Jimmy and Suki, and many other street racers, create a diversion that allows O'Connor and Pearce to sneak away in different cars and continue their mission. Verone tries to escape aboard his yacht with Monica, informing her that he knew she was an undercover U.S. Customs agent. O'Connor and Pearce get rid of Verone's henchmen and stop the yacht. Verone is arrested and the duffle bags carrying his drug money are recovered, save for an undisclosed amount having been taken by O'Connor and Pearce.