Matt Sullivan  and his roommate, Ryan , are co-workers at a San Francisco dot-com company. Matt is obsessed with his ex-girlfriend, Nicole , who has just gotten engaged. He confides to his brother, John , who is training to become a Catholic priest, that he has sexual problems because of his obsession. Matt vows to go without sexual activities for 40 days and 40 nights for Lent. In this movie it is also implied that Matt does not masturbate or otherwise actively seek orgasm for the same period, since doing so could be considered sexual. John warns Matt that celibacy is not easy; meanwhile, Ryan starts a popular office pool to bet on how long Matt can last. Matt meets Erica , a cyber nanny, and begin to date. They face many challenges in their relationship, including her discovery of his celibacy vow and Matt's continuing feelings for Nicole. Matt's co-workers make many unsuccessful attempts to persuade him to have sex in order to win the pool, and as the days pass Matt's obsession with sex grows. At one point he angrily grabs a pornographic magazine from an office desk and begins to march towards a toilet stall in order to masturbate, but his co-workers stop him and convince him to maintain his pledge. Despite the range of increasingly powerful cultural incentives to sex and orgasm surrounding Matt — scantily-dressed women, billboards, et cetera — Matt's commitment holds, and begins to frustrate a lot of the people around him who had fully expected him to break it long before he could get close to his goal. In the meantime, Erica and Matt are falling in love, and they plan a special encounter for the 40th night to celebrate him successfully completing his vow. On the 40th day, a newly single Nicole learns of the betting pool, makes a large bet and then rapes Matt while he is asleep. Erica subsequently believes Matt dishonored his vow and was unfaithful to her, but Matt wins Erica back by reminding her of the special moments they shared during their relationship. The two reconcile in Matt's bedroom for many hours, with his co-workers making a new betting pool on the duration of their stamina.