In 14th century Europe, squires William Thatcher , Roland  and Wat , discover their master, Sir Ector , has died with one final pass to complete to win a jousting tournament. Destitute, William rides in Ector's place to win the tournament and secure the prize. Though Roland and Wat wish to take their share of the winnings and leave, William convinces them to train him to joust. Along the way to his first tournament in Rouen, the trio encounters Geoffrey Chaucer , who agrees to forge patents of nobility to allow William to compete as a knight under the assumed name of "Sir Ulrich von Liechtenstein" from Gelderland. After competing in his opening event, William is brought before Simon the Summoner and Peter the Pardoner. Chaucer has a gambling problem and is in their debt, but William orders him released and promises payment. In the course of competition, William's armour is damaged. He goads Kate , a female blacksmith, to repair his armour without advance payment and goes on to win the sword event at the tournament. In the joust, he faces a Sir Thomas Colville , who withdraws from the tournament after being injured by William, though they exchange a ceremonial pass so that Colville might retain the honor of never having failed to complete a match. The proceedings are observed by Jocelyn , a noble lady whom William has become infatuated with, and Count Adhemar , a rival both in the joust and for Jocelyn's heart. In the final joust of the tournament, William is defeated by Adhemar. Kate joins William's party and forges new lightweight armour allowing him greater mobility. In the following tournament, Adhemar and William are both assigned to tilt against Sir Thomas Colville but Adhemar withdraws having discovered his true identity is that of Edward, the Black Prince. Though William also learns of Colville's identity, he instead continues the match, further earning Colville's respect. William continues to achieve victories as Adhemar is called to the battlefield. He wins Jocelyn's heart by first agreeing to lose a tournament for her , and then after finding himself in a terrible deficit, but not eliminated, to win the tournament in her name. The group travels to London for the World Championship. William recalls leaving his father to squire for Sir Ector and learn to become a knight hoping to "change his stars." Adhemar has also arrived in London and announces that he is in negotiations with Jocelyn's father for her hand in marriage. William dominates at the tournament and he returns to visit his father, now blind and living alone in Cheapside, but is discovered by Adhemar, who alerts the authorities as to William's false identity. William is placed in the stocks but is defended from the hostile crowd by his friends. Just as the mob reaches its frenzy, Prince Edward emerges from the crowd. He declares that William is descended from a noble lineage and knights him "Sir William." William returns to the tournament to face Adhemar in the final match, but Adhemar cheats with an illegal lance, piercing William's shoulder and seriously injuring him. Entering the final pass, William is losing by 2 lances. He demands to be stripped of his armour and tilts against Adhemar. With Jocelyn and William's father in attendance, William bellows his true name, delivering a crushing blow and knocking Adhemar to the ground, winning the tournament. In the ensuing celebration, Chaucer remarks that he should write this whole story down, as Jocelyn and William embrace.