When influential folk music producer Irving Steinbloom dies, his children organize a memorial concert featuring his three most famous acts: The Folksmen, The New Main Street Singers, and Mitch & Mickey. The Folksmen trio consists of Mark Shubb , Alan Barrows , and Jerry Palter . Their most famous folk song was "Old Joe's Place." The New Main Street Singers are the second generation of the original Main Street Singers, formed by George Menschell , the sole survivor of the original group. Menschell sings and holds a guitar he cannot play. Performers include Terry Bohner  and his wife Laurie Bohner . Laurie is a former adult film star and with her husband, is co-founder of Witches in Nature's Colors , a coven of modern-day witches that worships the power of color. Another member is Sissy Knox , a former juvenile delinquent and daughter of one of the original Main Street Singers. They are managed by Mike LaFontaine , whose fifteen minutes of fame came by way of a failed 1970s TV sitcom, Wha' Happened?, which lasted less than one season. The group, which is otherwise entirely white, includes one Filipino American member, Mike Maryama . Mitch Cohen  and Mickey Crabbe  are a romantic duo that released seven albums together until their traumatic break-up decades earlier. Their most famous song is "Kiss at the End of the Rainbow," during which the pair would actually kiss on stage. After the three groups agree to the reunion performance, to be held at The Town Hall in New York and televised live on PBN, they begin rehearsals. The show itself goes off with only two hitches: two acts plan to play the same song, and Mitch temporarily disappears. In the finale, everyone joins together to sing "A Mighty Wind." Six months after the reunion, Mickey is performing "The Sure-Flo Song" at her husband's trade show booth. Mitch is writing poetry again, claiming to be in a "prolific phase." Folksman Mark Shubb is living life as a transgender woman, while still singing in her famous bass voice. LaFontaine is reviving an idea for a sitcom starring the New Main Street Singers. He wants to call it "Supreme Folk" and have each play Supreme Court judges by day, folk singers sharing a house by night.