Wealthy Yemeni-American brothers Steve  and Doug Butabi  enjoy frequenting Los Angeles nightclubs, where they bob their heads in unison to dance music  and fail miserably at picking up women. Their dream is to party at the famouse L.A. nightclub The Roxbury, a fabled nightclub where they are continually denied entrance by a hulking bouncer . By day, the brothers work at an artificial plant store owned by their wealthy father, Kamehl Butabi . They spend most of their time goofing off, daydreaming about opening a club as cool as the Roxbury together, and Doug using credit card transactions as an excuse to hit on a phone approval operator. The store shares a wall with a lighting emporium owned by Fred Sanderson . Mr. Butabi and Mr. Sanderson hope that Steve and Emily , Sanderson's daughter, will marry, uniting the families and the businesses to form the first plant-lamp emporium. After a day at the beach the brothers decide that tonight is the night they will finally get into the Roxbury. Returning home, Doug gets into a heated argument with their father about going out clubbing instead of staying home. Their father has planned a dinner party with Emily and her parents. The angered Mr. Butabi then denies them access to their BMW car and their cell phones. They are given enormous cell phones by their mother  and allowed use of the fake-plant store's delivery van, they are quickly rejected by the doorman . After discovering they might bribe their way into the club, the brothers drive around looking for an ATM. They get into a fender-bender with Richard Grieco  and to avoid a lawsuit, Grieco uses his fame to get them into the popular club. There they meet the owner of the Roxbury, Benny Zadir , who listens to their idea for a nightclub of their own. He likes them and sets up a meeting with them for the next day. The brothers also meet a pair of women at the Roxbury: Vivica  and Cambi , who see them talking to Zadir and think that the brothers are rich. On the way to the afterparty at Mr. Zadir's house, the brothers annoy his driver and bodyguard Dooey  by making him stop to buy fluffy whip and making jokes about sleeping with his parents. As revenge, the next day Dooey denies them entry into Zadir's office for their meeting. He tells the brothers that Zadir was drunk out of his mind last night and does not know who they are. In reality, Zadir really wants to see them, but does not have their contact information. The girls break up with the Butabi brothers after realizing they are not really wealthy. The brothers fight and Doug moves out of their shared bedroom and into the guest house. Meanwhile Steve is forced into an engagement with Emily. The wedding is held in the backyard of the Butabi residence, but is interrupted by Doug. Having gone on a fluffy-whip-fueled bender, he interrupts the wedding, reconciles with his brother, and the wedding is called off. Afterwards, Richard Grieco  talks to Mr. Butabi to help him understand that Steve was not ready for marriage, and that Butabi is too hard on Doug. The movie ends as the Butabi brothers happen upon a hot new club. The building is unique in that the exterior is constructed to resemble the interior of a nightclub, and the interior resembles a street — this was an idea pitched by Doug and Steve to Zadir earlier in the movie. Attempting to enter, they are surprised to find their names on the VIP list. In addition, Zadir reveals that to reward their idea, he has made them part-owners of the club. Their new-found success comes full circle when they meet two women in the club: Doug's phone representative from the credit card company  and a police officer  whom Steve earlier flirted with while getting a ticket.