Sergeant Nicolo "Nico" Toscani  is a detective in the Chicago Police Department’s vice squad. Born in Palermo, Italy, he and his family immigrated to Chicago when he was seven. Early on, he developed an interest in martial arts, and soon moved to Japan to study from the masters. In 1969, Nico was recruited into the CIA by CIA Special Agent Nelson Fox  and served a tour with a CIA Special Ops. group serving in Vietnam and Cambodia in 1973, and Nico was involved in some covert operations on the Vietnamese-Cambodian border during the Vietnam War. There, he became disgusted with Kurt Zagon , one of his superiors, who used the Vietnam war as an opportunity to get into the money-making business of smuggling drugs. Nico left the CIA. Upon returning, Nico returned to Chicago and joined the Chicago Police Department. He was soon promoted to Detective, and assumed his current role. Nico has a wife named Sara . Nico and his new partner, soon-to-leave-the-force Detective Delores "Jacks" Jackson  are now investigating a drug ring, and after busting two of the dealers, including Salvadorian drug dealer Tony Salvano , Nico finds C4 explosives. Shortly afterward, in a twist of events, everyone that Nico and Jacks arrested is suddenly let go at the request of Federal officials, and Nico is asked to stand down, not to mention the fact that the priest of Nico’s parish is killed in an explosion as a Mass is ending. Fox calls Nico and tells him to move his family to a safer location, concluding that Nico is in danger. Soon enough, Nico has police searching his house and is asked to turn in his badge. Nico eventually finds that the dealers he busted are linked to Zagon, who is still with the CIA. Zagon wants to use drug money to fund an invasion of Nicaragua, and Senator Ernest Harrison  puts the heat on Zagon and his group to reveal their undercover operations. When Nico finds out that the priest’s death was of Zagon’s making, and that Zagon is planning to kill Harrison, Nico seeks to bring down Zagon and all involved with him to justice. Nico has a confrontation with Fox, who is himself corrupt, and who tries to take Nico hostage. Nico is eventually captured by Zagon, who kills Fox for not bringing Nico in. Nico breaks free after being held in the kitchen of a hotel during a campaign party in which Harrison is attending. Before Zagon can kill Harrison, Nico breaks free, although drugged, and kills all of Zagon's men, including Zagon himself by breaking his neck. After that, Nico is seen by Jacks and Harrison as he is now sure to make a full testimony on corruption, next to his wife and child.