Gomez  and Morticia Addams  welcome the birth of their third child, Pubert . Older siblings Wednesday  and Pugsley  are antagonistic toward their new baby brother and attempt to kill him several times, but Pubert fortuitously survives each attempt. Worried by this behavior, Gomez and Morticia seek out a nanny to help look after the children. After Wednesday and Pugsley scare off the first few applicants, Debbie Jelinsky  is hired. Gomez's brother Fester  is immediately infatuated with her. Unbeknownst to the family, Debbie is a serial killer known as "The Black Widow", who seeks out wealthy bachelors, marries them and then murders them on their wedding night, making the deaths appear accidental so that she inherits their fortunes. Wednesday and Pugsley become suspicious of Debbie's intentions toward Fester, believing that she is after his vast riches. Debbie tricks Gomez and Morticia into sending the children away to a summer camp, where they quickly make enemies of the perky camp owners Gary  and Becky Granger  and the snobby Amanda Buckman . Joel Glicker , another social outcast, develops a crush on Wednesday. Meanwhile, Debbie advances her plot to seduce Fester: she professes to love him, but claims to be a virgin and says they cannot consummate their relationship until marriage, prompting Fester to propose. Wednesday and Pugsley are distraught at the news and try to escape from camp, while Gary and Becky repeatedly attempt to get them to be peppy. They are allowed to attend the wedding, and Wednesday brings Joel along. On their honeymoon, Debbie attempts to electrocute Fester by dropping a radio into the bathtub with him, but he is unaffected. Frustrated by his resilience, Debbie uses her sexual hold over Fester to manipulate him into severing all ties with his family. The two move into a lavish mansion, and when Gomez, Morticia, Grandmama  and butler Lurch  attempt to visit, Debbie forbids them from seeing Fester. Pubert soon goes through dramatic changes, becoming blonde-haired, rosy-cheeked and cheerful. Grandmama determines that he is possessed, a condition brought on by anxiety over Fester's separation from the family. Back at camp, Wednesday refuses to participate in Gary's play, a musical production of the first Thanksgiving. She, Pugsley, and Joel are locked in the "Harmony Hut" and forced to watch upbeat family films to curb their antisocial behavior. On emerging from the hut, Wednesday feigns perkiness and agrees to play the role of Pocahontas. However, during the play, she leads the other social outcasts — who have all been cast as Native Americans — in a revolt, capturing Gary, Becky and Amanda and leaving the camp in chaos. Before she leaves, Wednesday and Joel kiss. Debbie tries once again to kill Fester, this time by blowing up their mansion with a bomb. When he again survives, she pulls a gun on him and admits that she never loved him. Thing — the Addams' animated, disembodied hand — helps him to escape. Fester, Wednesday and Pugsley arrive at the Addams mansion, but the family's reunion is interrupted by Debbie who straps them — with the exception of Pubert — into electric chairs and forces them to watch a slide show detailing how she murdered her parents and previous husbands. Pubert, having returned to normal, is propelled into the room via a chain reaction of events and manipulates the wires just as Debbie throws the switch, causing her to be incinerated while the rest of the family is spared. At Pubert's first birthday party, Uncle Fester becomes enamored with Cousin Itt's child's new nanny, Dementia. Wednesday and Joel visit Debbie's grave in the family cemetery; Wednesday says that if she wanted to kill her husband, she would simply scare him to death. As Joel lays flowers on the grave, a hand shoots up from the ground and grabs him while Wednesday gives a satisfied smirk.