In 1560, a thousand Spanish conquistadors, and a score of captured Indians, march down from Quito in the Andes mountains into the jungle below. Under the command of Gonzalo Pizarro , the party's mission is to find El Dorado. The men, clad in half armor, pull cannons through narrow mountainous paths and hot, thickly humid jungle. After much difficulty, on New Year's Eve, Pizarro orders a small expeditionary group of forty men to continue ahead by rafting down a river in search of El Dorado. If they do not return to the main party within one week with news of what lies beyond, they will be considered lost. Pizarro chooses Don Pedro de Ursúa  as the commander of the expedition, Don Lope de Aguirre  as his second-in-command, fat nobleman Don Fernando de Guzmán  representing The Royal House of Spain and brother Gaspar de Carvajal  as a chronicler. Also accompanying the expedition, against Pizarro's better judgment, are Ursúa's mistress, Doña Inéz  and Aguirre's young daughter, Florés . One of the four rafts becomes separated from the others and gets caught in a whirlpool. A rescue team is unable to approach the raft until the following day, when all men on the raft are found to have been killed by unknown attackers. Ursúa wants the bodies to be brought back to camp for proper burial. Knowing this would slow down the expedition, Aguirre orders Perucho  to fire a cannon at the raft, which sinks, and the corpses are lost in the river. During the night, the remaining rafts are swept away by the rising river. Since supplies start to run out and things get progressively worse, Ursúa decides that their mission is hopeless and orders them to return to the main group. Wanting power, Aguirre takes the opportunity to lead a rebellion against Ursúa, telling the men that untold riches await them ahead. Ursúa and a soldier loyal to him are shot. Ursúa's mistress, Inéz , cares for them. Aguirre coerces the soldiers to "elect" the fat, lazy Don Fernando de Guzman as the new leader of the expedition. Aguirre proclaims Guzman Emperor in the New World, “dethroning” Philip II. A farcical trial of Ursúa results in his being sentenced to death, but Guzman surprises Aguirre by refusing to allow this to happen. Instead, Guzman grants Ursúa clemency. Aguirre proves to be an oppressive leader, so terrifying that few protest his leadership. Those who complain are killed. Only Inez has the courage to speak out against him. Knowing that some of the soldiers are still loyal to Ursúa, Aguirre simply ignores her. The expedition continues on a single, newly built, large raft. An Indian couple approaching with a canoe is captured by the explorers, but when the man expresses confusion at the sight of a Bible, Brother Gaspar de Carvajal  has the man and his wife killed for blasphemy. Guzman dines on the low food supplies while the men are starving, and has the expedition's only horse pushed off the raft because it annoys him. Soon after, he is found strangled near the raft's outhouse. After Guzman's death, Aguirre proclaims himself leader. Ursúa is then taken ashore and hanged in the jungle. The group attacks an Indian village, where many of the soldiers are killed by spears. The distraught Inez walks into the jungle and disappears. Aguirre is now the ruler of a group of slowly starving, hallucinating men. The group gapes in awe at a wooden ship perched in the highest branches of one of the tall trees. In a final Indian attack, all remaining survivors including Aguirre’s daughter are killed by arrows. Aguirre remains alone on the slowly circling raft. The raft becomes overrun by monkeys. The crazed Aguirre tells them: "I, the Wrath of God, will marry my own daughter and with her I will found the purest dynasty the world has ever seen. Together, we shall rule this entire continent. We shall endure. I am the Wrath of God!"