The film explores the lives of the characters Felice Schragenheim , a Jewish woman who assumed a false name and who belongs to an underground organization, and Lilly Wust , a married mother of four children, unsatisfied with her husband . Felice takes the initiative in the love affair. Lilly, fascinated with the strength of Felice and her friends, realizes that she can give her love more fully to a cosmopolitan woman than a man. The film features both erotic encounters and sentimental love poems , and during one love scene a poetic line emerges in which Lilly is an Aimée to Felice as Jaguar. Then one day Lilly’s husband gets leave from the front and arrives home, only to find Felice and Lilly in bed. Although he then hoped merely to punish her for her indiscretion so that his marriage would return to normal, Lilly surprises him by asking for a divorce. He later dies at the front. Felice and her friends stop seeing Lilly for the sake of their own survival. On one occasion, Lilly erupts in anger over Felice’s unexplained absence for days, so Felice shares her secret that she is Jewish. After the 20 July Plot, Lilly’s friends fear for their lives and arrange to flee Germany before they are rounded up. Felice prefers to take her chances in order to enjoy the love of her life, though unfortunately not for long, as Felice is captured by the Gestapo. She is sent to the Theresienstadt concentration camp from where the two still manage to correspond, but all contact is lost by the end of 1944. The story has two bookends. When the film begins in 1997, an 83-year-old Lilly  is taking up residence in a dilapidated flat that once served as an underground hideout. Lilly’s German maid Ilse , who was rounded up during 1945, is already a tenant. Lilly and Ilse reminisce as the film ends. Lilly, though saddened by the tragedy that she caused her friends and lovers, is unable to imagine how her life could have been any different, given her obsessive live-for-today-for-tomorrow-we-die mood, common among besieged Berliners. Lilly Wust lived in Berlin until her death on 31 March 2006. The tagline of the film is "Love Transcends Death".