Based on an original screenplay by Ryan T Young of Lampoon fame, Chazz, Rex and Pip are a Los Angeles would-be rock band called The Lone Rangers. The guys are continuously turned down as they try to get their demo tape heard by producers. They finally decide to try to get the local rock station, KPPX 103.6 , to play it on the air, after they saw how Rebel Radio helped another band The Sons of Thunder get a record deal. Their first break-in attempt is using Pip's ATM card and its PIN. The card's confiscated. Then, Rex tries to short circuit the electronic lock with Pip's Big Gulp. They finally get in when a station employee Suzzi comes out and they keep the door from shutting behind her. Once inside, DJ Ian "The Shark" puts them on the air without them knowing. Station Manager Milo overhears them and intervenes. After Milo calls Rex "Hollywood Boulevard trash", Chazz and Rex shove water pistols that look like Uzis loaded with hot pepper sauce in Milo's face and demand airplay. After setting up a reel-to-reel for the demo, the tape starts and is destroyed when the reel runs out and catches fire in an ashtray. The guys try to run, but Doug Beech, the station's accountant, calls the police and the building is surrounded. They soon realize that they are armed hostage takers and begin negotiations with the police. During the crisis, it is learned that Milo had signed a deal to flip KPPX's format to Soft Adult Contemporary , which includes having to fire Ian and most of the other employees. Ian and the rest of the employees side with the band and turn against Milo. Eventually, Jimmie Wing, the record executive who rejects Chazz in the beginning of the film comes to the radio station. The band signs a record contract and goes out on stage to play, only to realize that they are supposed to lip sync the song and fake playing the instruments. They refuse to lip sync while the music is playing and get a round of applause from the audience, who rush the stage. Afterwards, Ian becomes The Lone Rangers Manager and the band is sent to prison, but serve only a 3-6 month sentence. They record an album while in prison called "Live in Prison", which goes triple platinum.