===Alice's Adventures in Wonderland=== The first part opens with Alice  helping Mother set the table for tea time. Although thankful for her daughter's help, Mother tells Alice that she is still not grown-up enough to join the adults at tea. Alice goes outside to see her sister , but gets bored of reading a book with no pictures. Her sister tells her that she will understand when she grows up, but Alice thinks she is already grown up . While playing with her kitten, Dinah, the White Rabbit comes running by, saying he's late. Wondering where he is going, Alice follows him and tumbles into his rabbit hole.  Alice finds herself in a hall with many doors, and all of them locked. On a table is a key which Alice can use to open one small door. Yet the door is far too small to even fit her head in. A small bottle appears labeled "Drink Me.", she comes back to the table and puts it to her lips. Doing this, she shrinks to the right size for the door, but can no longer reach the key to open it. She then sees a small box which she opens and finds a little cake with the words "Eat Me," on it. Doing this, she grows to over nine feet tall. Frustrated with the thought of being stuck nine feet tall she begins to cry, her tears fall on the floor and flow under the cracks. The White Rabbit appears, but frightened of the giant Alice then runs away dropping his fan and gloves. Using the fan makes Alice shrink again to a size small enough to crawl into one of the cracks, which takes her diving in her pool of tears. While swimming in the pool of tears, she meets the Mouse , who tells her why he hates cats and dogs. Alice later catches up with the White Rabbit and, in his house, curiously she finds another "drink me" bottle and chances it growing her full 9 foot character once again. Angry at Alice, the rabbit and his friend Pat the Pig  try to employ Bill the Lizard  to remove Alice. Having tried unsuccessfully the White Rabbit and Pat begin throwing berries at her which turn into cakes that causes her to shrink back to size. After running away she meets the Caterpillar , and then goes to the house of The Duchess. Finding the house too violent and hateful, she takes the Duchess' baby away, but then turns into a pig. She meets the Cheshire Cat , who gives her directions to see either the March Hare or the Mad Hatter, but warns Alice that they, along with everyone else, are mad. Alice visits the garden of the Queen of Hearts , who always yells "Off with her Head!" and plays croquet, or at least watches the others play. She leaves to visit the Gryphon  as well as the Mock Turtle , but then she is called to attend a trial. The trial deals with the Knave of Hearts, who is accused of having stolen The Queen's tarts. There is no proof that he did it, but again there is no proof that he did not do it, nor is there proof that anybody did it, which proves him guilty, according to the Queen. Alice argues with the ways of the court, but inexplicably begins to grow larger again. Alice continues to argue with the Queen and even though she tells her to hold her tongue Alice refuses and tells the Queen to hold hers. The Queen becoming angry, yells "Off with her Head!" and has the guards chase the giant Alice, who is hardly afraid of them as "they're nothing but a pack of cards". Alice keeps running until she trips and falls and finds herself back home, in her normal size. She runs happily back home, but finds that nobody is there. Hearing her cat Dinah she sees her on the other side of the mirror, along with her parents, who can only see their own reflection, and can't see or hear their daughter. Alice doesn't know how to get through to the other side so she sits at a nearby chair, and notices a strange book next to her and starts reading it. There is a poem called Jabberwocky about a scary monster. Trying to deny her fears, she gets very scared as the room becomes dark and the Jabberwock appears in the house. This marks the end of the first part. ===Through the Looking Glass=== The second part opens with Alice at home trapped behind the living-room mirror and invisible to her parents. The Owl  explains that until she overcomes her fear of growing up, she will be unable to return to the real world and remain stuck in Looking-Glass World, where everything is the reverse of what she expected. As the Jabberwock scares Alice and she wishes it away, it disappears. Yet, she is informed by The Owl in a painting that it may come back any time and reveals to her that it is a creation of Alice's own fears. After an interesting conversation with talking flowers, Alice meets The Red Queen, who tells her to take the place of one of the pawns/children of The White Queen on the chess board. Alice plays a pawn, but finds herself now on the second square, from where she must reach the eighth square to become a queen. The Red Queen tells her that only if she becomes a queen she may go home. On the way to the eighth square, Alice meets many various characters and visits many places. She goes on a train that doesn't stop, sitting next to with The Goat, and opposite The Gentleman in the Paper Suit , and The Horse . The passengers opposite her twit her with silly  dialogue, e.g., sending her back as luggage, or ahead as a telegraphic message. Miffed by all this teasing, she calls the goat a silly billy, getting a Japanese-accented horse laugh from Pat Morita's character. She meets The Gnat king, as well as Tweedledum and Tweedledee, who sing  about shaking hands and then sing the story of "The Walrus and the Carpenter". She bumps into The White Queen, who sings of the logic of "Jam tomorrow, jam yesterday, but never ever jam today" as a consequence of living backwards and ends up turning herself into a sheep. She is then chased by a giant bird, which she initially thought was the Jabberwocky, and meets Humpty Dumpty. The Jabberwocky appears again, and Alice flees when it pursues her after knocking Humpty Dumpty off a wall. Alice then meets The White King and his Messenger, who bring Alice to see the Lion and the Unicorn, who are fighting for the crown. The combatants call a temporary truce and are intrigued by Alice, whom they perceive as a "fabulous monster". Alice then hands out a tray of cake, but every times she cuts it in half, it turns itself into a whole cake again! She flees the group after a deafening barrage of drums begins to play, which she is apparently the only one to hear. Thereafter, she meets The White Knight, who sings and dances with her. Finally, Alice reaches the eighth square and finds her way to her castle, where a great feast in her honor takes place, with many of the characters she met previously on her journey. Alice appreciates the feast but tells everybody that what she really wants is to go home. A present is then brought to her, out of which comes The Jabberwock. The beast starts frightening and terrorizing everyone in the castle. The White Knight tries to rescue Alice, but fails. Alice manages to find her way back to the mirror and into her home, where she gets to confront The Jabberwock. Telling him that he is just in her imagination and that she does not believe in him, he finally disappears. After this, Mother walks in and tells her daughter that she is finally old enough to join the grown-ups at tea time. Alice then sees the Wonderland characters in the mirror, and they sing farewell to her. Tearfully, Alice waves them goodbye as the movie ends.