The film starts with Jim  ending his first year at college. Jim begins to have sex with one of his college friends as "friendly goodbye sex" when he reveals that this is his "first time since his first time". After appearing extremely clueless in front of the girl, it is revealed that Jim's Dad  plans to surprise his son with a six pack of beer when he goes to pick him up from school. Jim's Dad has the RA unlock the door and he inadvertently walks in on them. Instead of leaving, Jim's Dad begins to try and rationalize the moment by declaring that it is perfectly natural when the young girl's parents and Jim's Mom walk in as well. After this, Jim, Kevin , Oz  and Finch  return to their hometown in East Great Falls, Michigan for the summer break after their first year of college. They attend a party hosted by Stifler , the oversexed college clown, but not only does their new status as college students not give them any success with local girls, the police shut down the party. Kevin also has problems when he meets Vicky  after their year away from each other; Vicky wants to be friends and Kevin is awkwardly positioned wanting her back, but worried he will lose her completely. Desperate, he calls his brother  for advice, who tells him to move down to the beach and party hard. Together, they set off for a rented house by the beach in Grand Harbor, Michigan, where they intend to spend the whole summer, but Kevin is forced to invite Stifler along as well in order to successfully cover the costs. After arriving in Grand Harbor, Kevin finds them work as painters and decorators for a house nearby. Stifler is intrigued by the two sexy female owners , who appear to be lesbians, and excitedly breaks into their house while they're away. Jim and Finch follow him, trying to get him out, but they are caught by the girls, who relent on calling the police. But after Stifler identifies his interest in their sexuality, they insist on the boys performing "like for like" homosexual acts on each other in return for being able to watch the girls do the same thing. Oz and Kevin take turns watching up a ladder and listening on the walkie-talkie also in the room. The conversation is accidentally picked up and heard by many other people in the neighborhood . Following this, the boys plan to throw a huge summer party at the house, bigger than anything they've done before. Many concurrent stories run at the same time in the run-up to the party. Nadia , Jim's fling from senior year, is traveling the United States and is dropping by to attend the beach party. Jim asks for sexual help and advice from band geek Michelle Flaherty , his senior-year prom date, who is busy at band camp. While masquerading as a band camp member, the team leaders mistake him for Petey, a mentally-challenged trombone player, and usher him onto the stage in front of an impatient crowd. He proceeds to completely embarrass himself and the band members in front of the whole crowd. Later at night, Jim decides to turn on a porn film that Stifler rented, but accidentally uses superglue instead of lubricant to masturbate, permanently gluing his entire hand to his penis and boxer shorts. Exasperated and anxious, he takes out the porn cassette but ends up bonding the cassette to his other hand. Unable to open any doors, he climbs out of a window and stumbles onto the rooftop where he is seen by a nosy neighbor and subsequently caught by confused police officers. He is supported at the hospital by his father, where he learns the news that he won't be able to have sex for at least a whole week, the same amount of time before the party is due to occur. However, to Jim's horror, Nadia turns up early, having got bored of sightseeing. Jim's penis is still badly injured, so he pretends to be in a relationship with Michelle to put Nadia off. Jim and Michelle break the relationship off once he is ready to have sex with Nadia, but Michelle is saddened by it, having developed genuine feelings for Jim. Meanwhile, Oz is lonely and missing his girlfriend Heather  who is away in Spain. They start having erotic phone sex to vent some of their frustration, but keep getting interrupted, first when Oz gets a wrong number call from a guy who barely understands English, and then when Stifler intervenes by amusing Heather, at which point they both decide to hang up. Finch has become involved in the sexual art of Tantra , and claims that through Tantric sex, he can "make an orgasm last for days". He is waiting patiently for Stifler's mom , who slept with him at the end of the first film, hoping she will show up and be willing to do it again. He thinks she is arriving when a vehicle turns up after Stifler is talking on the phone, but it turns out to be Stifler's little brother Matt , the star of later films. He spends the party night obnoxiously attempting to chat up and seduce a few girls, but he does not sleep with any of them. Finally, the party begins at the beach house. Kevin sees Vicky but is crushed when he sees her with a new boyfriend and leaves to go to the beach by himself. Oz, Finch, and Jim follow him down, where he confides in them that he never got over Vicky and that with the party, he was hoping to relive his senior year prom night, in particular, sleeping with Vicky at the end of it. The others help Kevin realize that it will never happen, and the quartet return to the beach house to party hard. Heather turns up to Oz's delight, and Stifler goes on to have a threesome with the beautiful neighbors who turn out not to be lesbians after all. Jim takes a walk along the beach with Nadia, who takes him to a lighthouse on the pier, but Jim calls it off early, revealing that he has fallen for Michelle. Nadia is disappointed that Jim chose a geek over her, but is happy for Jim and allows him to go and find Michelle, performing at band camp. He gatecrashes the performance with a trombone, just like he did before, but with much more confidence and aggression, and romantically makes out with Michelle in front of a heartwarmed crowd. Meanwhile, the geeky Sherman  mulls around at the party in a depressed mood, having abandoned his "Sherminator" mantra from the first film due to his abject failure with girls and being made fun of by Jessica . By chance, he begins talking to the rejected Nadia, who is also depressed, and the two hit it off almost instantly. Nadia encourages Sherman to become the Sherminator once more, displaying a desire/fetish for geeks, and excitedly drags him into an upstairs bedroom where Sherman finally loses his virginity, to the shock of Stifler. Then the couples are shown to be sleeping. First Oz along with Heather, then Jim with Michelle  and finally Stifler lying in the bed with two girls, where he starts to weep with happiness at his achievement. The morning after the party, a Mercedes-Benz C215 with tinted windows turns up at the house. Finch approaches to see Stifler's mom  who has finally turned up. It does not take long before Finch gets into the car and drives off to the lakeside to have hard sex with her, leaving Jim, Kevin and Oz to cover for him with Stifler. In spite of Finch having learned that her name is Jeanine, rather than use it she encourages him to call her "Stifler's Mom" when he reaches orgasm.