Andy McDermott is a tourist seeing the sights of Paris with his friends Brad and Chris. When Serafine Pigot leaps off the Eiffel Tower just before Andy is about to bungee jump, he executes a mid-air rescue. She vanishes into the night, leaving Andy intrigued – and also unaware that she is the daughter of David Kessler and Alex Price, the couple seen 16 years earlier in the first film. That night, Andy, Chris, and Brad attend a night club called "Club de la Lune". The club's owner, Claude, is actually the leader of a werewolf society that uses the club as a way to lure people in to be killed. Serafine arrives, tells Andy to run away and transforms into a werewolf. The club owners transform into werewolves as well and butcher all the guests. Chris escapes, Brad is eaten by a werewolf and Andy is bitten by a werewolf. The next day, Andy discovers himself transforming into a werewolf. Brad's ghost appears to Andy and explains Andy's werewolf condition. In order for Andy to become normal again, he must eat the heart of the werewolf that bit him; in order for Brad's ghost to be at rest, the werewolf that ate his heart must be killed, too. Andy hooks up with an American tourist named Amy, but transforms and kills her. Andy also kills a cop who had been tailing him, suspecting Andy was involved in the Club de la Lune massacre. Andy is arrested but escapes. He begins to see Amy's ghost as well, and she begins trying to kill him. Claude and his henchmen ask Andy to join their society, but to prove his loyalty, Andy must kill Chris. Serafine rescues Andy, explaining that her father prepared a drug to control werewolf transformations, but instead the drug forces werewolves to immediately transform into their beast form. Claude and the other werewolves then raid Serafine's stepfather's lab and kill him, taking the drug to transform immediately. Serafine and Andy learn of another party Claude has planned and infiltrate it. They help the partygoers escape and Andy manages to kill the werewolf that ate Brad's heart, thus setting Brad free. The cops arrive and a fight ensues. Andy and Serafine manage to kill many werewolves, with Serafine shifting to her beast form to fight when she runs out of ammunition. Andy does not know she has transformed and shoots Serafine. Claude makes his way onto a subway train, but slips onto the tracks. A train slams into him, causing him to transform back to a human. He tries to take another dose of the drug, but Andy stops him. As they fight, Andy discovers that Claude is the werewolf that bit him. Andy then kills him and eats his heart, breaking the werewolf curse. By some miracle, Serafine survives. The film ends with Serafine and Andy celebrating their wedding atop the Statue of Liberty. They bungee jump off it as the credits roll. In an alternate ending, after Andy eats Claude's heart, Serafine has a vision of her father in the back of an ambulance. The alternate closing scene shows Serafine and Andy having a child, whose eyes shift to look like the werewolves'.