Angus Bethune  is a teenage boy living in Minnesota, who, despite his talents as a football player and in science class, holds deep insecurities about himself. Since kindergarten, Angus has been regularly harassed by handsome Rick Sanford , and his complacent cohorts, for not being "normal" due to being overweight and is, in their view, "named after a cow". His only friend is Troy Wedberg , who is also a social outcast like him. Angus also had feelings for Melissa Lefevre , though is fearful of expressing it because she is dating Rick. Eventually, tired of the abuse from Rick, Angus applies for a magnet school where he hopes to be free of the constant humiliation. However, well aware of Angus's feelings for Melissa, Rick rigs an election so that Angus and Melissa will dance together in the upcoming freshman Winter Ball as King and Queen, respectively. While confronting Rick about the stunt, Angus is ordered by the principal not to lay a hand on Rick or he would be expelled. To get ready for the dance, Angus gets help from not only Troy, but also his mother Meg , and his narcoleptic Grampa . His grandfather tells him about a dance move called the Irish Swoon that he claims is a guaranteed lady-pleaser, but Angus fears that his largeness makes him an inept dancer and would embarrass both him and Melissa. To fix this, Grampa takes Angus to Madame Rulenska , where despite Angus's best efforts, he comes out worse than before . Later on, despite his request for a black tuxedo and wanting to be normal, Grampa purchases him a plum one. One day after football practice, Angus opens his locker and sees that his favorite pair of boxers are missing. Angus and Troy learn later with their own eyes that Rick hoisted his boxers up the flagpole for the school to see, which then fly squarely onto passerby Melissa's face. Angus storms home in anger, but Rick and company quickly kidnap Troy, asking him for anything that would embarrass Angus at the Winter Ball. Troy refuses their request and tries to escape, only to break his arm as he trips to the floor while Rick gives Troy an ultimatum. Meanwhile, Angus helps Grampa prepare for his marriage to April , a woman thirty years younger than him. As Angus waits with Grampa in his room on the day of the wedding and confides with him about his love for Melissa, he tries to wake him, but he quickly discovers that he is dead. Distraught, Angus opts to stay home for a few days. By that time, fearful that Rick will hurt him even more, Troy gives him the videotape containing the footage of Angus practicing his dancing with an inflatable doll while confessing his feelings for Melissa. Later that week, while cleaning up from the wedding, Angus receives a box from April and opens it, revealing the plum suit that he had earlier rejected. He realizes that his grandfather was right, he needs to stop fearing humiliation from Rick and stand up for himself or nothing will change. Resolved to grant Grampa's wish, Angus rejects an interview from the science school he applied to, wears his plum suit and marches to the school gymnasium, where the dance is held. Outside the school gym, Troy warns him to turn around and leave because Rick has something bad planned for him. Angus refuses and tells him that he's sick of enduring humiliation so he's taking his grandfather's advice by standing up for himself. He meets Melissa, and the two converse for the first time. Angus is surprised when Melissa tells him she is nervous because everyone will be staring at them. As they are introduced to the students, Rick plays Troy's videotape on the monitors, and the students are laughing. A humiliated Melissa runs out of the gym and Angus follows her, very infuriated with Troy for betraying him. Outside the gym, he apologizes, yet surprisingly Melissa shows her disgust with Rick and reveals that she is bulimic. She also mentions that he is very controlling and it is even hinted that he can be abusive. Angus learns that Melissa likes him because he's kind and respectful of others. Finding common ground, the two return to the gym and dance, even as Melissa helps him out with some of the steps. After the two receive a mild reception from the students, Rick scolds Melissa, while Angus comes to her defense. It is here that Angus finally confronts Rick and petitions him to realize that there are in fact many people that do not fit Rick's idea of "normal", are unwantingly ostracized for it, and are fed up with the humiliation. Rick refuses Angus' plea by replying "Whatever I am, it's something you're never gonna be," to which Angus replies "Thank God!" and turns to leave the gym. The students applaud Angus for taking a stand against Rick and it appears that he has lost his popularity since the students no longer seem to fear him. Before Angus can leave the gym, he is stopped by Melissa, who says she wants another dance with him. Immediately after, Angus meets up with Troy and forgives him while offering Troy to dance with him and Melissa. Troy, overjoyed, wheels around and accidentally punches Rick's nose and breaks it, catching the attention of a girl  who asks for Troy's name. Soon after, Angus walks Melissa home. She smiles and kisses him on the cheek before going into her house, implying the two may have a relationship. As Angus walks away, Melissa watches him from her bedroom window. In the end, having stood his ground, Angus rejects the offer to transfer and Rick is suspended for his videotape prank. Though he had his moment, Angus decides to get another one some day.