An idealistic young medical student named Martin Arrowsmith  makes a favorable impression on Dr. Max Gottlieb . When Arrowsmith graduates, Gottlieb offers him a position as his research assistant, but the young man reluctantly has to turn him down. He has fallen in love with nurse Leora , and the salary is not enough to support the couple. Instead, he marries Leora and sets up his medical practice in her rural home town. One day, he develops a serum to cure a fatal cow disease ravaging the nearby herds. Reinvigorated, he decides to join Gottlieb at the McGurk Institute in New York. Meanwhile, Leora miscarries and, to the couple's sorrow, is unable to have any more children, so she devotes herself to supporting her husband's mission. When there is an outbreak of bubonic plague in the West Indies, Gottlieb believes that Arrowsmith's experience with his cow serum would prove invaluable. Eager to help mankind, Arrowsmith goes to a Caribbean island to work with scientist Gustav Sondelius  in his struggle to save the natives. Leora accompanies him, despite his fear for her safety. Sir Robert Fairland  refuses to let him give his serum to only half the people and give the other half a placebo in order to test the effectiveness of the cure. Howard University-educated Dr. Oliver Marchand  offers them the people of his island as test subjects. Among the participants in the experiment is Mrs. Joyce Lanyon , a New Yorker stranded on the island who is attracted to Arrowsmith. Sondelius contracts the disease; just before he dies, he pleads with Arrowsmith to save as many lives as possible by abandoning the scientific protocol. The young doctor becomes worried about his wife. He goes to see her, but too late; she too has succumbed to the plague. Arrowsmith then decides to give the serum to all, saving many lives. On Arrowsmith's return to New York, Dr. Tubbs , the head of the McGurk Institute, is eager to bask in his reflected glory. However, when Gottlieb suffers a stroke during the reception in Arrowsmith's honor, Arrowsmith decides to quit the institute and join his friend and co-worker Terry Wickett  in a makeshift lab doing real research.