In 1945, John J. Macreedy , who lacks the use of his left arm, steps off the Southern Pacific passenger train at the desert hamlet of Black Rock. It is the first time the train has stopped there in four years. Macreedy is looking for a man named Komoko, but the few residents are inexplicably hostile. The young hotel desk clerk, Pete Wirth , claims he has no vacant rooms. The newcomer is none-too-subtly threatened by local tough Hector David . Reno Smith , the town's unofficial leader, informs Macreedy that Komoko, as a Japanese-American, was interned during World War II. Certain that something is wrong, Macreedy sees the town sheriff, Tim Horn , but the alcoholic lawman is clearly afraid of Smith. The veterinarian and undertaker, Doc Velie , advises Macreedy to leave town immediately. Smith lets slip that Komoko is dead.  Pete's sister, Liz , rents Macreedy a Jeep. Macreedy drives to nearby Adobe Flats, where Komoko lived. He finds the homestead burned to the ground. On the way back, Coley Trimble  tries to run him off the road. When Smith later asks, Macreedy informs him he lost the use of his left arm fighting in Italy. Macreedy tells him he found wildflowers at the Komoko place, leading him to suspect that a body is buried underneath. Smith reveals that he is virulently anti-Japanese; he tried to enlist the day after the attack on Pearl Harbor, but was rejected. Macreedy tries to telephone the state police, but Pete refuses to put the call through. Doc Velie admits that something terrible happened four years ago and that Smith has everyone too terrified to speak up. Velie offers Macreedy his hearse to leave town, but it will not start. Then Hector comes over and rips out the distributor cap and spark plug wires. Macreedy dictates a telegram to Hastings  addressed to the state police. While Macreedy is having lunch, Trimble picks a fight, but Macreedy uses judo and karate to beat him up and knock him out. Macreedy tells Smith that he knows Smith killed Komoko and that he was too cowardly to do it alone, so he involved Hector, Pete, and Coley. Macreedy heads to the hotel lobby, hoping that Smith and his men won't dare attack him in such a public place. Smith and his henchmen are already there. Hastings tries to give Smith a telegram, but Macreedy snatches it away and discovers that it is his own unsent message. Macreedy and Doc Velie demand that Sheriff Horn do something. When Horn tries to confront Smith, however, Smith takes his badge and gives it to Hector. Hector tears up the telegram. After Smith and Hector leave, Macreedy reveals that the loss of his arm had left him wallowing in self-pity, but Smith's attempt to kill him has given him strength again. Macreedy finally learns what happened after revealing that he came to Black Rock to give Komoko his son's medal. Komoko's son was a soldier serving in Italy and died in combat trying to save Macreedy. Komoko leased some farmland from Smith, who was sure there was no water there. However, Komoko dug a well deep enough to find water, and installed a windmill there. After Smith was turned down for enlistment after Pearl Harbor, he and the other men spent the day drinking, then decided to scare Komoko. The old man barricaded himself inside his home, but the men set the place on fire. When Komoko emerged ablaze, Smith shot him. Pete lures the watching Hector into the hotel office, where Doc Velie knocks him out. Liz drives Macreedy out of town in her Jeep, but stops in a canyon. Macreedy realizes he has been betrayed. When Smith starts firing at him, Macreedy shelters behind the Jeep. Liz rushes to Smith despite Macreedy's warning. Smith tells her she has to die along with the rest of his accomplices. He shoots her in the back when she tries to run. Macreedy finds a bottle and fills it with gasoline from the jeep's fuel line, creating a Molotov cocktail. When Smith climbs down for a better shot, Macreedy throws it, hitting the rock next to Smith and setting him on fire. Macreedy drives up to the town jail with the injured Smith and Liz's body. Velie and Horn rush out; they had mustered up enough courage to jail Hector David and Coley Trimble. The state police are called in. As Macreedy is leaving, Doc Velie requests Komoko's medal to help Black Rock heal. Macreedy gives it to him just before boarding the train.