A doe gives birth to a fawn named Bambi, who will one day take over the position of Great Prince of the Forest, a title currently being held by Bambi's father, who guards the woodland creatures from the dangers of hunters. The baby fawn is quickly befriended by an eager, energetic rabbit named Thumper, who helps to teach him to walk and speak. Bambi grows up very attached to his mother, who he constantly spends time with. He soon meets other friends, including a baby skunk named Flower and a female fawn named Faline, as well as his powerful, majestic father, the Great Prince of the Forest. Curious and inquisitive, Bambi frequently asks about the world around him and is cautioned about the dangers of life as a forest creature by his loving mother. During Bambi's first winter, his mother is shot and killed by a deer hunter while trying to help her son find food, leaving the little fawn mournful and alone. Taking pity on his abandoned son, the Great Prince leads Bambi home. Upon the arrival of spring, Bambi has matured into a young stag, and his childhood friends have also entered adulthood as well. They are warned of "twitterpation" by Friend Owl and that they will eventually fall in love, albeit the trio view the concept of romance with scorn and trudge off. However, along the way, Thumper and Flower both encounter their beautiful romantic counterparts and abandon their former thoughts on love to remain with their new romantic interests, and soon Bambi encounters his friend Faline as a gorgeous doe. However, their relationship is quickly interrupted and challenged by a belligerent stag called Ronno, who attempts to force Faline away from Bambi. Fortunately Bambi successfully manages to earn rights to the doe's affections by conquering Ronno in battle. Bambi is awakened shortly afterward by the smell of smoke, and is warned of a wildfire by his father. The two flee to safety, although Bambi is separated from Faline in the turmoil and searches for her along the way. He soon finds her cornered by vicious hunting dogs, which he manages to ward off, and he makes it with his father, Faline, and the forest animals to shelter on a riverbank. The following spring, Faline gives birth to twins under Bambi's watchful eye as the new Great Prince of the Forest.