===Act I=== :By What Means Redmond Barry Acquired the Style and Title of Barry Lyndon An omniscient  narrator  informs us that in 1750s Ireland, the father of Redmond Barry  is killed in a duel over a disputed horse sale. The widow , disdaining offers of marriage, devotes herself to her only son. As a teenager, Barry falls in love with his older cousin, Nora Brady . Though she seduces him, she later drops Barry  for the well-off English Captain John Quin . Nora and her family plan to relieve their poverty with an advantageous marriage, but Barry refuses to accept the situation and shoots Quin in a duel. Barry flees to Dublin, but en route is robbed of purse and equipment by Captain Feeney , a famous highwayman. Broke, Barry joins the British army, whereupon he reunites with Captain Grogan , a family friend, who informs him that, in fact, he did not kill Quin — Barry's dueling pistol was loaded with tow. The duel was staged by Nora's family to get rid of Barry so that their family finances would be secured through the marriage of Nora and Quin. Barry's regiment is sent to France to fight in the Seven Years' War, where Captain Grogan is fatally wounded by the French at the Battle of Minden. Barry deserts the army, stealing an officer courier's uniform, horse, and identification papers. En route to neutral Holland he encounters the Prussian Captain Potzdorf , who, seeing through his disguise, offers him the choice of being turned back over to the British where he will be shot as a deserter, or enlisting in the Prussian army. Barry enlists in his second army and later receives a special commendation from Frederick the Great for saving Potzdorf's life in a battle. After the war ends in 1763, Barry is employed by Captain Potzdorf's uncle in the Prussian Ministry of Police to become the servant of the Chevalier de Balibari , a professional gambler. The Prussians suspect he is a spy and send Barry as an undercover agent to verify this. Barry reveals himself to the Chevalier right away and they become confederates cheating at cards. After he and the Chevalier cheat the Prince of Tübingen at the cardtable, the Prince accuses the Chevalier  and refuses to pay his debt unless the Chevalier demands satisfaction. When Barry relays this to his Prussian handlers, they  are wary of allowing another meeting between the Chevalier and the Prince. So, the Prussians arrange for the Chevalier to be expelled from the country. Barry conveys this plan to the Chevalier, who flees in the night. The next morning, Barry, under disguise as the Chevalier, is escorted from Prussian territory by Prussian officers. For the next few years, Barry and the Chevalier travel the spas and parlors of Europe, profiting from their gambling with Barry enforcing reluctant debtors with a duel. Seeing that his life is going nowhere, Barry decides to marry into wealth. At a gambling table in Belgium, he encounters the beautiful and wealthy Countess of Lyndon . He seduces and later marries her after the death of her elderly husband, Sir Charles Lyndon .  Intermission  ===Act II=== :Containing an Account of the Misfortunes and Disasters Which Befell Barry Lyndon On marriage , Barry takes the Countess&#39; last name and settles in England to enjoy her wealth, still with no money of his own. Lord Bullingdon , Lady Lyndon&#39;s 10-year-old son by Sir Charles, does not approve of the marriage and quickly comes to hate Barry, aware that Barry is merely a &#34;common opportunist&#34; and does not love his mother. The Countess bears Barry a son, Bryan Patrick, but the marriage is unhappy: Barry is openly unfaithful and enjoys spending his wife&#39;s money in self-indulgent spending sprees while keeping his wife in dull seclusion. Some years later, Barry&#39;s mother comes to live with him at the Lyndon estate. She warns her son that his position is precarious: If Lady Lyndon were to die, all her wealth would go to her first born son Lord Bullingdon , leaving Barry penniless. Barry&#39;s mother advises him to obtain a noble title to protect himself. To further this goal, he cultivates the acquaintance of the influential Lord Wendover  and begins to expend even larger sums of money to ingratiate himself to high society. All this effort is wasted, however, during a birthday party for Lady Lyndon, Lord Bullingdon announces his hatred of his stepfather and his intention to leave the family estate for as long as his mother remains married to Barry. Angered, Barry assaults Bullingdon before the guests. This public display of cruelty loses Barry all the powerful friends he has worked so hard to make and he is shunned socially. Bullingdon makes good on his announcement and leaves the estate and England itself for parts unknown. In contrast to his mistreatment of his stepson, Barry proves a compassionate and doting father to Bryan, with whom he spends all his time after Bullingdon&#39;s departure. He cannot refuse his son anything, and succumbs to Bryan&#39;s insistence on receiving a full-grown horse for his ninth birthday. The spoiled Bryan disobeys his parents&#39; direct instructions that Bryan only ride the horse in the presence of his father, and is thrown by the horse. Bryan dies a few days later from his injuries. The grief-stricken Barry turns to alcohol, while Lady Lyndon seeks solace in religion, assisted by the Reverend Samuel Runt , tutor first to Lord Bullingdon and then to Bryan. Left in charge of the families&#39; affairs while Barry and Lady Lyndon grieve, Barry&#39;s mother dismisses the Reverend, both because the family no longer needs  a tutor and for fear that his influence worsens Lady Lyndon&#39;s condition. Plunging even deeper into grief, Lady Lyndon later attempts suicide . The Reverend and the family&#39;s accountant and emissary Graham  then seek out Lord Bullingdon. Upon hearing of these events, Lord Bullingdon returns to England where he finds Barry in a local tavern getting drunk and mourning the loss of his son rather than being with Lady Lyndon. Bullingdon demands &#34;satisfaction&#34;  for Barry&#39;s public assault. The duel with pistols is held in an abandoned chapel. A coin-toss gives Bullingdon the right of first fire, but his pistol misfires as it is being cocked. Barry, reluctant to shoot Bullingdon, magnanimously fires into the ground, but the unmoved Bullingdon refuses to let the duel end. In the second round, Bullingdon shoots Barry in his left leg. At a nearby inn, a surgeon informs Barry that the leg will need to be amputated below the knee if he is to survive. While Barry is recovering, Bullingdon re-takes control of the estate. He sends a very nervous Graham to the inn with a proposition: Bullingdon will grant Barry an annuity of 500 guineas for life on the conditions that he leave England forever and end his marriage to Lady Lyndon. Otherwise, with his credit and bank accounts exhausted, Barry&#39;s creditors and bill collectors will assuredly see that he is jailed. Defeated, Barry accepts. The narrator states that Barry goes first to Ireland with his mother, then to the European continent to resume his former profession of gambler  and that he never sees Lady Lyndon again. The final scene  shows the dissolute middle-aged Lady Lyndon signing Barry&#39;s annuity cheque as Bullingdon looks on. ===Epilogue=== :It was in the reign of King George III that the aforesaid personages lived and quarreled; good or bad, handsome or ugly, rich or poor, they are all equal now