The film begins in the home of the Newtons, where George, Alice, their three children, and Beethoven are all well adjusted to living together. Early on, Beethoven meets Missy, a female St. Bernard whose owners are attempting to settle a divorce. Regina, who is seeking $50,000 in the settlement, has retained full custody of Missy, planning to transfer her to Brillo, her future ex-husband, once the divorce is finalized. With Beethoven's help, Missy escapes from Regina's condo and the St. Bernards fall in love. Missy has four puppies who are discovered at the same time by Regina and two of the Newton children. Regina reclaims Missy and, angry about the puppies, plans to get rid of them even if it means killing them. The janitor who first found Missy and the puppies suggested that, as the puppies look to be pedigree St. Bernards, Regina might be able to sell the puppies and make a lot of money. Thinking Regina plans to drown the puppies, Ted and Emily carry them home in a box and hide them from George, who they do not think wants four puppies to deal with. Angered by the puppies' disappearance, Regina plans revenge. The three children, Ryce, Ted, and Emily, take it upon themselves to feed and care for the puppies, even getting up in the middle of the night and sneaking out of school to do so. Eventually, George and Alice discover the puppies; George, angry at first, reluctantly agrees to keep the puppies until they are mature. At this point, the puppies are presumably 8–10 weeks old, the children give them the names Chubby, Dolly, Tchaikovsky, and Moe, and George re-experiences the ordeals of dealing with growing dogs. Facing significant financial difficulty, the family is offered a free stay in a lakefront house at the mountains owned by one of George's business associates. Beethoven and the puppies, somewhat calmed down, go along on the family vacation. Ryce attends a party with friends where she is exposed to vices of teen culture such as binge drinking and getting locked in her former boyfriend's bedroom against her will. Beethoven tears the house apart, removing Ryce from potential danger. Regina and her new boyfriend, Floyd, are staying in a location unknown to Brillo, coincidentally near the Newtons' vacation residence. The Newtons go to a county fair with their dogs and the children persuade George to enter a burger eating contest with Beethoven. George and Beethoven win, much to the disappointment of the crowd. By happenstance, Regina and Floyd were at the fair and had left Missy behind in their car. Missy escapes from the car with Beethoven's help while Regina sneaks up behind the children and snatches the four puppies from them. Beethoven and Missy run into the wilderness, followed by Regina and Floyd. The Newtons follow, eventually catching up with Regina, Floyd, Beethoven, Missy, and the puppies. Floyd threatens to drop the puppies in the river below and George says the situation does not have to get ugly. Floyd pokes George in the chest with a stick, but Beethoven charges into the stick, ramming it into Floyd's crotch. He loses his balance, Regina grabs his hand, and they fall over the cliff into a pool of mud, which breaks, thus being swept away in the river. Five months later, Brillo visits the Newtons with Missy who overheard what happened at the mountains, revealing that the judge in the divorce had granted him full custody of her and awarded nothing to Regina after throwing her claim out and she and Floyd are sent to jail for their crimes. The puppies, almost full grown by then, run downstairs to see Missy as the film ends.