During a reconnaissance mission over Bosnia in the final stages of its conflict, US Navy naval flight officer Lieutenant Chris Burnett  and pilot Lieutenant Jeremy Stackhouse  spot suspicious activity in which Burnett persuades Stackhouse to fly their F/A-18 Hornet off-course to get a close look at the target and photograph it. However, both men are unaware that they photographed mass graves, and Serbs in the area spot the jet. The local Bosnian Serb Army commander, General Miroslav Lokar , is conducting a secret genocidal campaign against the local Muslim population. Not wanting the mass graves to be discovered, Lokar orders the jet to be shot down. Despite trying to outmaneuver the missiles shot at them, their aircraft is hit and both men are forced to eject. A short while after touching ground, a Serb patrol finds Stackhouse and interrogates him. Stackhouse is then executed by Sasha , a tracker and one of Lokar's right-hand men. Burnett, who was observing the Serbs' interrogation of Stackhouse from a hill, exposes the Serbs to his location. Wanting Burnett dead as well, Lokar orders both Sasha and his second-in-command, Colonel Bazda , to find him. Burnett is ordered by Admiral Leslie Reigart  to move to a certain location in order to be extracted. However, after Reigart is warned by Admiral Piquet  of the political ramifications of rescuing Burnett in the no-fly zone, Reigart informs Burnett that he must move to a safer location miles away outside of the demilitarized zone in order to be rescued. Immediately after being informed, Burnett sees a Serb patrol led by Bazda that is looking for him. As Burnett escapes, he falls into the very mass graves that he and Stackhouse had photographed and hides under a dead body. When the Serbs are out of sight, Burnett continues to run. On his way to the new extraction point, Burnett has a near-encounter with Sasha, but he encounters Muslim guerrillas aboard a pickup truck who offer him a ride. The guerrillas inform Burnett that they are heading to Hač, which is located within a safe area, but turns out to be a war zone. During the battle, Serb troops believe that they have found Burnett's body, but Burnett switched uniforms with a dead Serb soldier and escaped Hač. Although Sasha and Lokar recognize that Burnett escaped, they present the corpse wearing Burnett's uniform to the media saying he was killed. Their ruse works and a rescue mission to rescue Burnett is called off just as Burnett gets a view of the helicopter. Burnett, disappointed, then notices an angel statue that he parachuted down nearby as this is where his ejection seat landed. Burnett, whose radio was destroyed, wants to return to the site in order to prove to his carrier group that he is still alive as well as to obtain the evidence of Lokar's crimes, which is located on a hard drive attached to the seat. Burnett returns to his ejection seat and reactivates the rescue beacon. Even though the carrier group notices his signal, Burnett also alerts the Serbs to his location. Although knowing that doing so could have him relieved of command, Reigart prepares a task force aimed at rescuing Burnett. Bazda and Sasha are ordered to find Burnett and kill him, but Bazda is killed by a landmine on their way. After Sasha walks up to the ejection seat, Burnett jumps out of a snowdrift behind Sasha and the two men engage in a hand-to-hand fight until Burnett pulls out a flare and stabs Sasha in the chest with it, killing him. Immediately after Sasha is killed, Lokar arrives with armored personnel carriers and infantry who begin to fire upon Burnett as he runs to the nearby angel statue. Three U.S. Marine UH-1 Huey helicopters led by Reigart finally arrive and fire on the Serbs. After retrieving the hard drive containing the photos of the mass graves, Burnett escapes with the task force, which successfully withdraws back to the aircraft carrier. Lokar's war crimes eventually put him on trial, while Reigart's actions result in him being relieved from command.