Ten years ago, Jake Hopper  was a CIA agent who was stationed in Thailand. Then one day, things went sour, and his partner, Sunti  barely escaped with his life after accidentally killing a woman. Jake called it quits and returned to the United States when his wife died, and Sunti became a Buddhist monk to atone for his sins. For the past 10 years, Jake has run a successful private security business, and has been raising his daughter Jessica , who is now an adult. While hiking in Thailand, Jessica and her friend Sarah Winthorpe  are kidnapped. A group of Islamic fundamentalists known as the Abu Karaf claims responsibility. Sarah is the daughter of United States senator John Winthorpe. The Abu Karaf demand the release of 20 prisoners from American custody. Tom Collins , an ex-colleague of Jake's, recognizes Jessica on the ransom tape, and he tips Jake off. Jake knows that he must rescue the girls himself. An old CIA buddy puts Jake in contact with Leon Washington , an active CIA agent who is working in Thailand. Jake goes to Bangkok, and escapes an assassination attempt by unknown forces. Leon arranges a meeting for himself with Soku—the internal security chief for General Jantapan . Jantapan is a rebel military general who is making a play to be one of the most powerful men in Thailand. Secretly, Jantapan is messing with some very dangerous spiritual forces. Soku provides Jake with a cover story, but the CIA wants Jake out of it because they're planning to take out the Abu Karaf with the aid of the Thai army, and they don't want a civilian in the middle. Jake is a spiritual man, so he contacts his spiritual master Paijan Paitoon. As Jake is in trouble, Paitoon offers to arrange a divination from the oracle of the order. He enlists the help of Sunti. Jake also gets Lulu , the girlfriend of arms dealer Fitch McQuoid , to steal information leading to the Abu Karaf. Jake and Sunti follow the leads to a warehouse where they discover evidence of highly sophisticated weaponry. With their enemies now after Lulu, Jake takes Lulu under his wing. He then shares some of his info with Leon—still testing the waters. Can he trust Leon? Another attempt is made on Jake's life—and this time, Jake's sure that Leon was involved. Finally, the Abu Karaf contact Jake to arrange a meeting—the pieces are coming together, and Jake figures out that it was not the Abu Karaf who kidnapped Jessica and Sarah. Jake gets his reading from the old oracle, and the cryptic message confirms his fears—demonic spiritual forces are working against him. Jantapan later goes to an evil temple and tries to send the spirit of an ancient warrior demon to kill Jake, but the ceremony goes wrong and the spirit enters Jantapan himself, giving him amazing but evil physical and spiritual powers. Jake and Sunti go to meet Mongkol , the leader of the Abu Karaf. Mongkol confirms what Jake suspects—ever since the terrorist attacks of 2001, Jantapan has worked to corner the narcotics and arms markets. He also said that Jantapan kidnapped the girls and blamed the Abu Karaf so the army would wipe out Jantapan's competition. Mongkol knows where the girls are, and he gives Jake plans and intelligence and they both need the girls alive. Jake must engage in a rescue effort that will put him to the ultimate test as he takes on Jantapan in a battle in which death may be the only ending. That night, Jake and Sunti plan to rescue the girls who are locked in a cell in Jantapan's house. After killing two gang members guarding the cell and freeing the girls, a horde of corrupt Thai policemen intervene and makes a deadly shootout but end up dead through the firearms of the two. Sunti kills the rest of the cops while Jake battles with Jantapan in the upstairs living room. Jake kills Jantapan by disarming him and inflicts several injuries in his body like breaking his neck. He ends the fight by throwing Jantapan in a display cabinet which crushes his spine killing him. Jake returns downstairs which is now full of dead bodies of Thai police and embraces the girls and then Sunti only to discover hes is fatally injured. Sunti wishes Jake farewell before dying in his arms. Suddenly, military forces led by Leon and their General enter but Leon orders them to hold fire after seeing Jake with the dead Sunti and kidnapped girls. After the battle, a Buddhist funeral with Jake in the lead is seen. Jake steps into the river and throws Sunti's ashes in the water. A vision of Sunti smiling fades in and later fades out. The last scene is a head show of Jake looking at the river and saying "Good-bye brother." The movie ends with words saying "In Loving Memory of our friend Trevor Murray" and the credits roll.