Sonny Koufax  is a carefree, unmotivated 32-year-old bachelor who lives in New York City and has declined to take on adult responsibility. He has earned a degree in law, but has chosen not to even try to attempt to take the bar exam, since he was awarded $200,000 in a vehicle accident years prior and lives off his restitution. He is employed, on a part-time basis only, as a toll booth attendant and he more or less just does this job just to get out of the apartment once in a while. The film shows Sonny's friends, all former schoolmates, are "moving ahead" in their lives. His roommate, Kevin Gerrity , decides to ask his podiatrist girlfriend Corinne  to marry him, which is another thing that irritates Sonny, since he and Corinne dislike each other. Kevin decides to pop the question the day before he is leaving for China for his law firm. Two of his male friends, Phil  and Tommy , from school, in contrast to their conduct in Sonny's experience while at school, are now revealed to be homosexual and in a committed domestic partnership, which weirded Mike , another friend of Sonny. Sonny's girlfriend, Vanessa , disgusted and perplexed at Sonny's contrasting and inconsistent conduct decides to end her romantic relationship with him—and also find a new much older man, Sid  with more reliability. Sonny quickly becomes occupied with a new series of events in his life. He wakes up to Kevin already at the airport leaving for China. Kevin has revealed to having fathered an illegitimate son, whose name is Julian McGrath . Julian is abandoned at Sonny and Kevin's apartment, with a written explanation that Julian's mother is now declining to care further for Julian. It is later revealed at the Social Services office that the boy's mother died of cancer. Kevin, at the airport ready to go to China, gets a call from Sonny informing him of the letter and the boy. Sonny decides to handle the situation himself, and, in the process, decides Julian will solve his problem with his ex-girlfriend. His plan backfires and ends up at child services trying to give Julian back. Rather than give Julian to a group home he decides to hang out with Julian until a new family is ready for him. Sonny, in caring for Julian, soon discovers a new purpose in his life and a deep connection with Julian as a father figure. But Social Services rep Arthur Brooks  discovers that Sonny is posing as Kevin, and insists that he give up Julian. Brooks takes Julian and decides to press charges against Sonny. The case is brought to court, where Sonny has his friends as counsel, including Layla , Corinne's sister and Sonny's new girlfriend; and late-arrivee Kevin. Despite positive testimony from his friends , a homeless man  and changing the opinion of his own father Lenny, also a prominent attorney, the judge is ready to sentence him to jail for kidnapping Julian and defrauding the state. At this point, Kevin steps forward as Julian's father and insists that no charges be filed, having remembered a drunken fling with a Hooters girl in Toronto during the 1993 World Series, and connecting that with Julian's earlier testimony of originally coming from Toronto and being born in July. The judge grants custody to Kevin to the dismay of Julian, who wants Sonny as his father. Sonny tells Julian that can never happen because his real father is present, but they can be friends. One year, three months, and six days later, Sonny, now a lawyer and married to Layla with a child of their own, is surprised with a birthday party at Hooters attended by all his colleagues and friends, including Julian, but is more surprised to find Vanessa working as a Hooters girl, and her boyfriend Sid with his so-called five-year plan working the grill.