In the American Old West of 1874, construction on a new railroad led by Lyle  runs into quicksand. The route has to be changed, which will require it to go through Rock Ridge, a frontier town where everyone has the last name of "Johnson" . The conniving State Attorney General Hedley Lamarr  wants to buy the land along the new railroad route cheaply by driving out the townspeople. He sends a gang of thugs, led by his flunky assistant Taggart , to scare them away, prompting the townsfolk to demand that Governor William J. Le Petomane  appoint a new sheriff. The Attorney General persuades the dim-witted Le Petomane to select Bart , a black railroad worker who was about to be hanged.  Lamarr believes a black lawman will so offend the townspeople that they will either abandon Rock Ridge or lynch the new sheriff, with either result paving the way for him to take over the town. With his quick wits and the assistance of drunken gunslinger Jim , also known as "The Waco Kid" ,{{cite web}} Bart works to overcome the townsfolk's hostile reception. He defeats and befriends Mongo , an immensely strong, slow-thinking  henchman sent by Taggart and Lyle to kill Bart, and then beats German seductress-for-hire Lili von Shtupp  at her own game. Lamarr is furious that his plans keep failing and decides to destroy Rock Ridge with a newly recruited and diverse army of thugs . Bart now has 24 hours to come up with a "brilliant plan to save our town". He gathers the town, along with the railroad workers, 3 miles east of Rock Ridge to build a fake town as a diversion. The workers labor all night to complete their task. The sun rises on a fake town that's a perfect replica, down to the orange roof on Howard Johnson's outhouse. Bart realizes the town has no people in it, so it won't fool Lamarr's villains. Bart orders the townspeople to make "exact replicas of themselves," and leaves with Jim and Mongo to execute a plan that will slow the villains "to a crawl". The three construct a tollbooth labeled "Le Petomane Thruway", requiring Taggart's crew to pay 10¢ each to pass on their horses.  Since no one in the raiding party carries either any change or the realization that nothing's stopping them from simply riding around the tollbooth, Taggarts sends someone back to town to "get a shitload of dimes". Once through the tollbooth, Lamarr's villains attack the fake town, which Bart boobytrapped with several dynamite bombs. Bart attempts to set off the bombs but is unsuccessful as the detonator he has won't work. Jim is given the task of exploding the bombs; he fires pistol shots into them. After the bombs explode, launching villains skyward, the Rock Ridgers attack the villains. The resulting fight between the townsfolk and Lamarr's army of thugs breaks the fourth wall, literally: The fight spills out from the Warner Bros. film lot into a neighboring musical set being directed by Buddy Bizarre , then into the studio commissary, where a pie fight ensues. Taggart is knocked out when Mongo smashes his head on a cash register, and the fight finally pours out into the surrounding streets . The citizens of Rock Ridge chase the villains back to town to destroy them, but Lamarr runs to the theater while Bart and Jim follow him. The film ends with Bart killing Lamarr by shooting him in the groin at the "premiere" of Blazing Saddles outside Grauman's Chinese Theatre, saving the town, and joining Jim inside the theatre to view the end of the movie, persuading people of all colors and creeds to live in harmony, before they hand in their horses and ride off  into the sunset.