Jewel thief Miles Logan  participates in a $17&nbsp;million diamond heist in Los Angeles. One accomplice, Deacon , wants the diamond all for himself, killing one member of the team, and Logan escapes to a nearby construction site, hiding the diamond in a vent as the police close in. Deacon escapes, while Logan is caught and arrested as a robber, spending two years in jail. Upon his release, he argues with his ex-girlfriend, Janiece , who is angry for him lying to her about being a banker. Returning to the spot where he hid the diamond, Logan is dismayed that the site is the location of a new police headquarters. Posing as a ghetto pizza deliveryman, Logan steals an ID card from a rookie detective, and has his contact Uncle Lou  create a new persona for him, Detective Malone, a hotshot detective transferring from West Covina. After inadvertently foiling a prisoner escape while searching for the diamond, Logan is teamed up with naive detective Carlson  and sent out in the field. He teaches Carlson many different things on the job, substituting his criminal knowledge for police work, such as determining from a poorly-staged break-in that a car repair owner faked the theft of his own hubcaps with the intention of selling them on the streets, both finding the hubcaps and informing the owner that he would actually receive less for them on the street. Logan and Carlson bring in Logan's former accomplice Tulley  during a failed robbery attempt- forcing Logan to convince him to go along with the arrest to maintain his cover-, and capture a truck that is carrying a large shipment of heroin, and is promoted to Lead Detective of the Burglary Division with the admiration of his colleagues. Although Carlson discovers that his identity is fake- Logan having never intended to spend this long in the station and therefore believing that a more detailed background wouldn't be required-, Logan convinces him that he is actually from Internal Affairs. Eventually, Logan recovers the diamond from the vent in the Evidence Room- although briefly delayed when he discovers that it has fallen from its original hiding-place-, but accidentally drops it into the shipment of heroin. Before he can retrieve it, he and Tulley are volunteered for a sting operation to catch the heroin smugglers. At the delivery, Deacon is present and recognizes Logan. A shootout ensues, and Deacon is eventually killed by Logan. Eventually, Detective Carlson discovers Miles Logan's identity as a criminal posing as an police officer. However, he discovers this after a car chase led Logan across the border to Mexico, where he is out of the LAPD's and the FBI's jurisdiction, and also where he claimed that he was actually a Mexican Federale. Even though he is only inches over the border, the other detectives feel that they are now friends and let him go. Logan leaves with the diamond.