Blues Brothers 2000 resurfaces 18 years after The Blues Brothers with Elwood Blues  being released from prison, this time a rather high-tech private prison rather than the old Illinois state prison depicted in the first film. He learns that his brother Jake has died, along with their surrogate father figure Curtis , and that the orphanage the two had saved had eventually been demolished. However, Elwood is told of a second brother . The "brother" is the illegitimate son of Curtis named Cabel "Cab" Chamberlain  who, until Elwood enters his life, had no knowledge of being Curtis's son. Cab is a commander in the Illinois State Police. He angrily refuses to support Elwood, a habitual criminal, but Elwood inadvertently steals his wallet and purchases a used police squad car at a lot owned by Malvern Gasperon , who is leaving the business to move to New Orleans. Elwood takes a job as a master of ceremonies in a strip club owned by the drummer of the Blues Brothers band, Willie Hall. It is there where he discovers that the bartender, Mack McTeer , has exceptionally good singing talent. He also gets on the bad side of the Russian mafia who have been demanding payoffs from Willie. After the Russian mafia burns down the club, Elwood reunites the band. "Mighty" Mack is the new lead vocalist, with a 10-year-old orphan named Buster  also joining the band providing backing vocals and harmonica. The band travels to several locations from the first film with a depiction of how they have changed.  As well as upsetting the mafia, Elwood also falls foul of a white supremacy group  and the Illinois police force, at least until the zealous and ruthless Cab "sees the light" and becomes a Blues Brother with the help of Elwood's old friend, Rev. Cleophus James . Everyone heads south to Louisiana with the intention of entering a battle of the bands held at the mansion of a voodoo practitioner named Queen Moussette . They compete against the Louisiana Gator Boys, a band fronted by Malvern Gasperon. Police, criminals and various others are dealt with, after which Elwood and young Buster once again travel the road. The movie is dedicated to John Belushi, Cab Calloway, and John Candy, all of whom were in the original film and had died before the sequel began development.