During a particularly intense Florida heatwave, Ned Racine , an inept and somewhat sleazy lawyer, begins an affair with Matty , wife of Edmund Walker , a wealthy businessman. They go to great lengths to keep their affair a secret, but Ned mistakenly makes a pass at a woman he thought was Matty. She turns out to be an old school friend of hers named Mary Ann Simpson ; and Matty is seen performing fellatio on Ned by Edmund's young niece Heather  who is staying with Matty. Ned even meets Edmund when he comes across the Walkers by chance. Matty soon makes it clear to Ned that she wants to leave Edmund but also wants his money, explaining that a divorce would leave her with very little of his fortune because of a prenuptial agreement. Racine suggests that the only option is to kill Edmund. While planning the murder, Ned consults one of his shadier clients, Teddy Lewis , an expert on incendiary devices, who gives Ned the bomb he built for him. Matty tries to get Ned to change Edmund's will to prevent Heather from getting half the fortune, but he refuses in order to avoid suspicious activity in the days leading up to Edmund's death. Racine establishes an alibi at a Miami hotel, then drives back to the Walker estate at night where he kills Edmund. He places the body in an abandoned business that Edmund was known to be involved with, and destroys the building with the incendiary device, to make it look like a botched arson job. After his victim's death has been officially declared, Ned is contacted by Edmund's lawyer about a new will that Racine supposedly drew up on Edmund's behalf which was witnessed by Matty's friend Mary Ann Simpson. Unaware of the new will's existence, Ned plays along to avoid suspicion. Still leaving half the estate to Heather, the new will is so badly prepared it is declared null and void, due to a violation of the rule against perpetuities, resulting in Matty getting the entire fortune. As Matty later admits to an angered Ned that she forged the will, Ned's friends, prosecutor Peter Lowenstein  and police Detective Oscar Grace , begin to suspect Ned of involvement with Matty in a plot to kill her husband. While Ned is in Grace's office, Edmund's sister Roz brings in her daughter Heather to identify the man she saw earlier with Aunt Matty. Heather meets Ned face-to-face but fails to recognize him. No longer concealing his affair with Matty, Ned tells Grace and Lowenstein it has only recently begun. They reveal to him that Edmund's steel-rim glasses, which he always wore, were not on him at the time of the explosion, and are nowhere to be found. Mary Ann Simpson has also disappeared, having supposedly left the country after witnessing the new will that Matty forged. Nervous about the will, the glasses, the suspicions of the police, and Matty's loyalty, Ned happens upon a lawyer who once sued him over a mishandled legal case who reveals that to make amends, he recommended Ned to Matty Walker, and admits to telling her about his lack of competence as a lawyer. Lowenstein warns Ned that someone kept calling his hotel room on the night in question but never got an answer, thereby weakening his alibi. While in custody on a separate charge, Teddy Lewis also warns Ned that a woman came to him for another incendiary device, and that he showed her how to set it to explode when opening a door. Matty calls Ned to tell him the glasses were found by her housekeeper who, in exchange for money, has left them in the boathouse on the Walker estate. At her prompting, a suspicious Ned goes to the boathouse late at night and sees through the window a long twisted wire attached to the door. When Matty shows up, Ned confronts her at gunpoint. She admits to having arranged to meet him on purpose but claims to really love him now. He tells her to prove it by going to the boathouse and getting the glasses. In walking off toward the boathouse, Matty disappears into the night; then the boathouse explodes. Grace, having obtained enough evidence for an arrest, finds in the building's remains a body that is identified as Matty Walker  through dental records. Now in prison, Ned tries to convince Grace that Matty is still alive, laying out for him the scenario that the woman he knew as "Matty" had an unsavory background and, in order to marry Edmund Walker and get his money, assumed the identity of Matty Tyler. The woman Ned knew as "Mary Ann Simpson" discovered this and played along, presumably in exchange for some of the money, but was then murdered and left in the boathouse. Had he been killed by entering the boathouse, the police would have closed the case; both suspects would have been found dead, and "Matty" would have gotten away clean with the money, which was never recovered. Remembering that Matty told him where and when she attended High School in Illinois, Ned writes to the school asking for the yearbook from that time. As Ned looks through the yearbook, he finds the pictures of Mary Ann Simpson and Matty Tyler, confirming his suspicion that Mary Ann Simpson stole Matty Tyler's identity, eventually becoming Matty Walker. Below the real Matty's picture is the nickname "Smoocher" and "Ambition&mdash;To Graduate"; below Mary Ann's is the nickname "The Vamp", swim-team membership, and "Ambition&mdash;To be rich and live in an exotic land". In a coda filmed in a single shot, a distracted Mary Ann is seated on a comfortable chair on the beach of a tropical island. Reclining beside her is a virile young man, barely glimpsed but apparently a native of the place. As he lifts an ice-filled drink from a tray beside her, he addresses her in his own language. "It's hot," he says, when she asks him what he's said. Mary Ann puts on her sunglasses and agrees.