During World War II, Larry Nevins, an American sergeant, is blinded by a German sniper while fighting in North Africa. He is taken to a hospital for other blinded soldiers, where he struggles to come to terms with his disability. Larry quickly adapts physically, but the difficulty of forging relationships unknowing of race, creed, or appearance takes its toll. He befriends Joe Morgan, another blinded veteran, and Judy, a bank teller in town. One day Larry, unaware that Joe is black, utters a racial slur. This causes a huge rift between Larry and others. Meanwhile, he progresses well in his recovery, passing a crucial test to see how well he can handle himself on the street. He is cleared for furlough, so Judy takes him to visit her sister's cabin. Larry learns of a very successful lawyer who is blind and this gives him hope for the future. After dinner, Judy reveals her love for him. Larry says he needs more security and already has a fiancee at home. Somewhat dispirited, he goes home and has a rough time dealing with the racial attitudes of his Southern family and friends. His fiancee's family is having doubts about his fitness as a son-in-law and his parents are downcast because of his disability. Larry is happy to see his fiancee, Chris, though he still thinks of Judy. After a bad experience at his homecoming party, he tells Chris the difficulties they can expect with his disability. Chris eventually tells Larry that she isn't strong enough to leave home while Larry struggles to make a new life for both of them. Returning to the hospital, Larry takes a side trip to Philadelphia and meets the famous lawyer who had given him hope. The lawyer tells him that life is difficult but worth it and that his wife was an invaluable helper to him. At the train station, Larry is unexpectedly reunited with Judy. They joyfully declare their mutual love. Boarding the train, he hears Joe Morgan's name called. He catches Joe's arm, apologizes for all the hurt he caused and asks if they can be friends. Joe accepts the apology. They board and sit together as the train pulls out of the station.