David Huxley  is a mild-mannered paleontologist beleaguered by problems. For the past four years, he has been trying to assemble the skeleton of a Brontosaurus but is missing one bone . To add to the stress, he is about to get married to the dour Alice Swallow  and must make a favorable impression upon Mrs. Random , who is considering donating one million dollars to his museum. The day before his planned wedding, David meets Susan Vance  by chance on a golf course. She is a free-spirited young lady and, unknown to him at first, happens to be Mrs. Random's niece. Susan's brother Mark has sent her a tame leopard from BrazilLeopards are Old World animals, and Brazil is jaguar territory. named "Baby", which she is supposed to give to her aunt. Susan believes David is a zoologist rather than a paleontologist, and she is very persistent in getting David to go to her country home in Connecticut to help her take care of Baby, which includes singing "I Can't Give You Anything But Love" which Baby likes. Complications arise as Susan decides that she has fallen in love with David, and she endeavors to keep him at her house for as long as possible to prevent him from marrying his colleague.  While David is there, Susan's dog George  steals and buries the bone that David needs to complete his Brontosaurus skeleton. Susan's aunt, Mrs. Elizabeth Random arrives. She is unaware of who David really is because Susan has introduced him as a man named "Mr. Bone". Baby runs off, as does George. To further complicate matters, Susan and David mistake a decidedly wild and very dangerous leopard that has escaped from a nearby circus for Baby. They are jailed by a befuddled town constable, Constable Slocum  for breaking into the house of Dr. Fritz Lehman .{{cite web}} When Slocum does not believe their story, Susan tells him that they are members of "The Leopard Gang"; she refers to herself as "Swingin' Door Susie" and David as "Jerry the Nipper" . David fails to convince the constable that she is making everything up "from motion pictures she's seen." Eventually, Alexander Peabody  shows up to verify everyone's identity, Susan, who has sneaked out of a window, unwittingly drags the highly irritated circus leopard into the jail. David has to save her, using a chair to shoo the animal into a jail cell. A few weeks later, Susan finds David, who has been jilted by Alice because of her, working on his brontosaurus reconstruction at the museum. After presenting him with his bone, which she finally found by trailing George, Susan informs David that she has gotten her aunt to donate the million dollars to the museum. Against his advice, she climbs a tall ladder beside the dinosaur to be closer to him. Although Susan climbs from the dangerously swaying ladder onto the skeleton and causes it to collapse, David finally gives up and admits he cannot do without her.Mast, Gerald. Bringing Up Baby. Howard Hawks, director. New Brunswick and London: Rutgers University Press. 1988. ISBN 0813513413. pp. 33-206.