=  The film begins with a scene of a person being executed by hanging. The trap door opens and the person drops with a maniacal smile on his face. The movie then cuts to footage of an amateur video, taken from inside a car going through various parts of a city . The car goes from the middle-class suburbs to, literally, the other side of the tracks, into a shoddy industrial area, with a brief shot of a "Meat District" sign. The car approaches a young man on the sidewalk. Almost immediately, the young man is suddenly in a basement, tied with a seat belt to a chair and cleave gagged, while being forced to watch a television. The first video, "Pinion," begins to play.  The music video for "Pinion" begins in a bathroom. The camera zooms in on a toilet flushing, and a network of pipes is shown leading to a contraption with a large gear system and a pressure gauge on it. As the camera zooms out, a tight, plastic bodybag-like suit suspended in a padded cell with six rods by the side is shown, with the end of the pipes attached to the mouth portion with water gushing in, presumably to drown the person inside. An alternative interpretation that the person bound inside is being fed the "waste of the world" coming through the pipes.new sweat to drown me in: pinion Cutting back to the amateur video, the killer, wearing some sort of leather mask, drags the victim's head back and forces him to drink some sort of liquid from a jerrycan. The middle of the video for "Wish" is interrupted by amateur footage again with the victim chained to a table with a large wad of dark substance on his face. As the killer is immediately followed to be seen putting his pants on, it could be assumed that it is feces. After the video ends, the killer repeatedly rewinds to the part of the video where Reznor screams "fist fuck" and begins to rub his fist. The video for "Help Me I Am in Hell" shows a middle-age bald man in a room filled with flies. He ignores them while eating some sort of steak and drinking wine. On one occasion it is clearly shown that flies also enter his mouth when he eats. The video cuts away several times to show the same man in bondage gear. This video was blacked out in the most prominent leak;new sweat to drown me in: help me i'm in hell it is now generally believed  that this sequence is part of the complete film but was blacked out by Reznor in the bootlegged copy. Reznor is rumored to have distributed copies of Broken to his friends, each with a different part of the video blacked out, so that if it were bootlegged, he would be able to identify the source of the leak.  Following the video, the victim is shown still tied to a table as the killer proceeds to rip his teeth out. The video for "Happiness in Slavery" shows up, which was banned by music video channels worldwide.new sweat to drown me in: happiness in slavery It features a man  stripping off his clothes and settling down on a machine that tortures, rapes and later kills him. The film ends with a video for "Gave Up" - this is different from the one on Closure, as it is not an actual Nine Inch Nails video, but the music of NIN dubbed over the storyline of the movie. At this point, the victim is suspended from the ceiling, and is repeatedly attacked by the perpetrator first with a blade, then a blowtorch, after which the killer slices off the victim's penis with a straight razor. The camera-work here closely resembles that of an amateur snuff film, while there is interspersed footage of the police searching through the basement, and finding remains of previous victims.  Finally, the film cuts back to the victim strapped on a table, as the murderer hacks his limbs off with a chainsaw, proceeds to presumably rape him, and finally slices his chest open to eat his heart. The movie then cuts back to the execution scene, showing as the killer is dropped through the trap door, with a crazed smile on his face, falling through a seemingly immensely long tunnel, until the rope suddenly tightens. The movie ends with the inverted version of the Broken album cover, with the background black, and a mirrored "n" character filled with the original orange background texture. The severed head of the killer flying across the screen is also shown after 30 seconds of no audio and a black screen. In versions of the tape labeled as "Techno-necrophilia", the movie is followed by a segment of Robert "Budd" Dwyer's televised suicide. It does not appear on the "leaked" DVD version - it is possible that it was merely added by a third party while the tape was circulating.