Bruce Nolan  is a television field reporter for Eyewitness News on WKBW-TV in Buffalo, New York with a girlfriend named Grace. He desires to be the news anchorman, but soon after being passed over for promotion by his rival, Evan Baxter , he becomes furious during a live interview at Niagara Falls, leading to his suspension from the station. Following a series of misfortunes such as getting assaulted by a gang of thugs, Bruce complains to God  that "He's the one that should be fired" after which he ends up crashing his car into a pole. God isn't doing his job correctly, according to Bruce. Bruce later receives a message on his pager, directing him to an empty warehouse where God meets him. Bruce does not believe God is who he says he is but God's divine powers seem convincing. God offers Bruce his powers to prove that He is doing the job correctly. God tells Bruce that he cannot tell others he has God's powers, nor can he use the powers to alter free will. Bruce is initially jubilant with the powers, using them for personal gain, such as by getting his job back, replacing his car with silver Saleen S7 and impressing his girlfriend Grace Connelly . Th e gang of thugs who previously assaulted him face his wacky wrath, as he manifests a monkey out of the gang leader's butt and breathes a swarm of hornets toward his fleeing flunkies. Bruce finds ways of using the powers to cause miraculous events to occur at otherwise mundane events that he covers, causing a meteor to harmlessly land near a cook-off, finding the body of Jimmy Hoffa  and framing the two competing reporters for possession of illegal drugs. Bruce then causes his rival, the anchorman Evan, to utter mostly gibberish on-air, resulting in the job going to Bruce. During this, Bruce continues to hear voices in his head and people begin protesting in the outcome of his actions. He later re-encounters God on Mount Everest, who explains the voices are prayers, meant for God, that Bruce must deal with. Bruce creates a computerized email-like system to receive the prayers and respond, but finds that the influx is far too great for him to handle, and sets the program to automatically answer every prayer Yes. Bruce attends a party celebrating his promotion. When Grace arrives, she discovers Bruce's co-anchor Susan Ortega  trying to seduce him, and quickly leaves believing he ditched her. Bruce follows her, trying to use his powers to convince her to stay but cannot influence her free will. He tries to tell her what happened but she refuses to believe him and moves out of the apartment. When announcing in the anchor position Bruce realizes that the city has fallen into chaos because of him answering every prayer as yes and people in the city believe the Apocalypse is imminent due to the meteor strikes. A large number of people prayed to God  to win the multi-million dollar lottery and when thousands of people won, it reduced their winnings to a few dollars and the mobs of angry people started riots in the streets. Bruce returns to God, who explains that He can't solve all the problems and Bruce must figure out a way himself. Bruce returns to his computer system and goes about answering prayers as best he can and he goes to Evan and makes up with him by informing him that he turned down the anchorman job offer and that he asked for Evan to be given back his job to which he does. As he reads through the prayers, he finds a prayer from Grace, wishing for Bruce's success and well-being. As he reads it, another prayer from Grace arrives, this one wishing not to be in love with Bruce anymore. Bruce is stunned and walks alone on a highway, asking God to take back His powers and letting his fate be in His hands. Bruce is suddenly struck by a truck, and seriously wounded and regains consciousness in a white void. God appears, and asks Bruce what he really wants; Bruce admits that he only wants to make sure Grace finds a man that would make her happy. God agrees, and Bruce finds himself in the hospital, shortly after being recovered--a near miracle--by the doctors. Grace arrives and the two rekindle their relationship  and it is revealed that they are engaged. After his recovery, Bruce returns to his on-site reporting but now takes more pleasure in the simple stories and it ends with Evan, his colleagues and Grace applauding for him when he interviews a bakery shop shown in the beginning.