Ambitious politician Walter Chalmers  is holding a Senate subcommittee hearing in San Francisco on organized crime in America. To improve his political standing, Chalmers hopes to bring down Chicago mobster Pete Ross  with the aid of key witness Johnny Ross , Pete's brother. Bullitt takes place the weekend before the hearing, from Friday night  to Sunday night. Following his theft of $2,000,000 in mob money and subsequent escape from Chicago to San Francisco, Johnny is placed in the San Francisco Police Department's protective custody for the weekend. Chalmers requests Lieutenant Frank Bullitt  to guard him. Bullitt, Sergeant Delgetti  and Detective Carl Stanton , give Ross around-the-clock protection at the Hotel Daniels, a cheap flophouse near the Embarcadero Freeway. Late Saturday night, inexplicably Ross carefully unchains the hotel room door ; seconds later a pair of hitmen , burst into the room and shoot Stanton and Ross, seriously wounding them both. Bullitt wants to investigate the shooting, while Chalmers, upset, attempts to shift blame on to Bullitt and the department. After Bullitt thwarts another assassination attempt, Ross dies of his wounds. Bullitt suppresses news of the death, asking Doctor Willard  to "misplace" the chart and have the body placed in the morgue under a John Doe identity. Chalmers arrives at the hospital on Sunday morning and is angered that Ross has disappeared. He is further incensed when he and his police minion Captain Baker  receive no help from Bullitt. Chalmers places pressure on Bullitt to produce Ross, to no effect. Bullitt reconstructs Ross's movements, finding the cab driver Weissberg  who brought him to the hotel. He is told by the cabbie that Ross had made a long distance call and a local call from a pay phone before he came to the hotel. The local call was to a different hotel. Bullitt picks up his 1968 Ford Mustang GT and soon discovers he is being tailed by the two hitmen. Later the hitmen realize Bullitt has turned the tables and is now following them, resulting in a car chase at the end of which the hitmen are killed. Back at the police station, Bullitt is given until Monday morning to follow his remaining lead. With the help of his girlfriend Cathy , Bullitt heads to the hotel Ross called, where he finds a woman registered under the name Dorothy Simmons , also murdered. Cathy, who sees the body, is disturbed, and later expresses her fear to Bullitt that he is becoming as cold and unfeeling as the criminals he chases. While inspecting the dead woman’s luggage, Bullitt and Delgetti find two sets of passport and airline ticket folders , two brochures from a Chicago based international travel agency , and, hidden in the pockets of the two sets of clothing, two sets of completed travelers checks for nearly $100,000 each. One set was signed by Mrs. Dorothy Rennick, the other by her husband, Mr. Albert Rennick. Bullitt tells Delgetti to contact Immigration Service in Chicago and obtain the passport photos of Mr. & Mrs. Albert Rennick. Chalmers arrives at the morgue, demanding from Bullitt a signed admission that Ross died while in his custody. Bullitt demurs, and when the faxed copy of the Rennicks' passport photos arrives, Chalmers is shown to have sent the police to protect the wrong man. The Ross brothers  set Albert Rennick up in order to be killed as "Johnny Ross" so the real Ross could escape the mob. Johnny then killed Dorothy Rennick to silence her. At the airport, the search of the Rome flight reveals no Ross or Rennick. Bullitt guesses that Ross has booked a reservation on another international flight leaving about the same time. He discovers the real Johnny Ross on another flight  booked at the last minute; with a Rome ticket exchanged to pay for the flight. Chalmers makes one last attempt to use Ross for his own ends, which Bullitt angrily rejects before going after Ross. A chase across the working runways of San Francisco Airport ensues, with Bullitt eventually shooting and killing Ross after chasing him back into the terminal. Bullitt returns home, to find Cathy waiting for him, asleep. While going into the bathroom and starting to wash his hands, he looks up at the mirror and stares at his reflection, wondering if he has become what Cathy fears him to be.