A veteran U.S. Senate Democrat, Bulworth is losing his bid for re-election to a fiery young opponent. Bulworth's leftist views, formed in the 1960s and 1970s, have lost favor with voters, so he has conceded to moderate politics and to accepting donations from special interests. In addition, though he and his wife have been having affairs openly for years, they must still present a happy facade in the interest of maintaining a good public image. Tired of politics and his life in general and planning to commit suicide, Bulworth negotiates a $10 million life insurance policy with his daughter as its beneficiary in exchange for a favorable vote for the insurance industry. Knowing that a suicide will negate his daughter's inheritance, he contracts to have himself assassinated within two days' time. Turning up in California for his campaign extremely drunk, Bulworth begins speaking his mind freely at public events and in the presence of the C-SPAN film crew following his campaign. After ending up in a night club and smoking marijuana, he even starts rapping in public. His frank, potentially offensive remarks make him an instant media darling and re-energize his campaign. Becoming romantically involved with young campaigner Nina , Bulworth hides out in her family's home. He is pursued by the paparazzi, his insurance company, his campaign managers, Nina's protective drug-dealing brother, and an increasingly adoring public, all before his impending assassination. Nina reveals she is the assassin he indirectly hired and will now not carry out the job. Bulworth happily accepts a new campaign for the presidency right before he is shot in front of a crowd of reporters and supporters by an insurance representative fearful of Bulworth's push for single-payer health care. At the end of the picture he lies gravely wounded in a hospital, and it is left unsaid and unclear if he lives, or dies from his wounds. The picture ends with poet Amiri Baraka playing a street poet and proclaiming in front of the hospital, "You got to be a spirit. You can't be no ghost."