 A naive, rambunctious, overly enthusiastic and socially inept cowboy, Beauregard, and his friend and father-figure Virgil take the bus from Montana to Phoenix, Arizona, to participate in a rodeo. Virgil has encouraged the 21-year-old virgin, "Bo," to take an interest in "girls." Initially reluctant and frightened of the idea, Bo declares that he hopes to find an "angel" and will know her when he sees her. Making trouble everywhere they go, he continues his bad behavior in the Blue Dragon cafe. There he imagines himself in love with the cafe's singer, Chérie, a talentless but ambitious performer from the Ozarks with aspirations of becoming a Hollywood star. Her rendition of "That Old Black Magic" entrances him and he forces her outside, despite the establishment's rules against it, kisses her and thinks that means they're engaged. Cherie is physically attracted to him but resists his plans to take her back to Montana. She has no intention of marrying him and tells him so, but he's too stubborn to listen. The next day, Bo intends to marry Cherie after the rodeo, but she escapes. He tracks her down, and forces her on the bus back to Montana. On the way, they stop at Grace's Diner, the same place the bus stopped on the way to Phoenix. Cherie tries to make another getaway while Bo is asleep on the bus, but the road ahead is blocked by snow and the bus won't be leaving at all. They're all stranded there. The bus driver, the waitress and the cafe owner by now all have learned that Bo is kidnapping and bullying the girl. Virgil and the bus driver fight him until he promises to apologize to Chérie and leave her alone. He, however, is unable to do so because he's humiliated about having been beaten. The next morning, the storm has cleared and everybody is free to go. Bo finally apologizes to Cherie for his abusive behavior and begs her forgiveness. He wishes her well and prepares to depart without her. Chérie approaches him and confesses that she's had many boyfriends and is not the kind of woman he thinks she is. Bo confesses his lack of experience to her. Bo asks to kiss her goodbye and they share their first real kiss. All Cherie wanted from a man was respect, which she'd previously told the waitress when they sat together on the bus. This new Bo attracts Cherie. He accepts her past and this gesture touches her heart. She tells him she'll go anywhere with him. Virgil decides to stay behind. When Bo tries to coerce him to go with them, Cherie reminds him that he can't force Virgil to do what he wants. Having finally apparently learned his lesson, Bo offers Cherie his jacket and gallantly helps her onto the bus.