 In seventeenth century England, Irish Dr. Peter Blood  is summoned to aid Lord Gildoy, a wounded patron who had participated in the Monmouth Rebellion. Arrested while performing his duties as a physician, he is convicted of treason against the King and sentenced to death by the infamous Judge Jeffreys in the Bloody Assizes, but by the whim of King James II , Peter Blood and the surviving rebels are transported to the West Indies to be sold into slavery. In the English colony of Port Royal, Peter Blood is purchased by Arabella Bishop , the beautiful niece of the local military commander Colonel Bishop. Arabella, attracted by Blood's rebellious nature, does her best to improve his chances of living by recommending him as the personal physician of the local governor, who is suffering from a gouty foot. Outwardly resentful towards Arabella for trying to do him favors, but on the inside silently appreciative for her support, Blood nevertheless continues to hatch a plan of escape for himself and his fellow slaves. The plan is almost foiled when Bishop gets suspicious and has one of the men flogged in an attempt to make him talk, and Blood is spared a similar fate when a Spanish squadron attacks the town, During the raid, Blood and his fellow slaves escape, seize control of the Spanish raiders' ship and sail away to begin a life of piracy, in which Blood soon achieves incredible success and fame. When the old governor is unable to contain the pirate menace, Colonel Bishop is promoted to his post, and Arabella is sent to England for a recreational sojourn. Some years later, whilst travelling back to the Caribbean, the ship on which Arabella and royal emissary Lord Willoughby  are travelling is captured by Blood's treacherous partner, Captain Levasseur  and the two personages held for ransom. Blood purchases them himself, relishing the opportunity to turn the tables on his former owner, but Levasseur objects vehemently and is killed in the ensuing duel. Blood decides to take Arabella and Lord Willoughby to the safety of Port Royal. As they approach the port, they sight two French warships attacking the colony. Bishop and his men are nowhere to be found, since Bishop has deserted his post in his single-minded hunt throughout the Caribbean for Blood. Willoughby pleads with Blood to save the colony, but the captain and his crew to a man refuse to fight for James II of England. However, when Willoughby reveals that James II has since been deposed in the Glorious Revolution and that Willoughby has been sent by the new king, William of Orange, to offer a full pardon, emancipation, and a commission with the Royal Navy to Blood and his men, they joyfully change their minds at this good news and prepare for battle. After setting Arabella ashore, they approach the harbor disguised under French colors and save the colony in a pitched battle. As a reward, Blood is appointed the new governor of the colony and has the pleasure to deal with his hostile predecessor, now in serious trouble for dereliction of duty, and finally wins the hand and heart of Arabella.