A tabby cat  hitches a ride on a delivery truck to New York City. The cat hears the disembodied voice of a young girl pleading for help because something is out to get her. The cat is soon captured up by an employee from Quitters, Inc. ===Quitters, Inc.=== Cigarette smoker Dick Morrison , recommended by a friend, joins Quitters, Inc. to kick his habit. Clinic counselor Dr. Vinnie Donatti , who intimates that he is with the mafia, explains the clinic's uniquely persuasive method — every time Dick smokes a cigarette, horrors of increasing magnitude will befall his wife and child. Using the cat that Donatti's assistant Junk has caught in the street, Donatti demonstrates the first of these horrors: the cat is locked in a cage and tormented with electric shocks. Donatti explains that if his new client should be caught with a cigarette, Dick's wife Cindy will be subjected to the same shocks while he is forced to watch. For subsequent infractions, his young daughter will be subjected to the shocks, then his wife raped, and after the fourth infraction, they give up . Not wanting to worry them, Dick hides the looming threat from his wife and daughter. During a stressful traffic jam, Dick ultimately cannot resist temptation and smokes, not realizing he is being watched by Junk. After watching Cindy suffer in the electric cage, Dick is determined never to smoke again and tells his wife everything. Time passes, and Dick is apparently smoke-free at last, but has put on a little weight as a result of quitting. Dr. Donatti prescribes diet pills and jokingly warns that if Dick does not reduce his weight, he will cut off his wife's little finger. Later Dick and his wife have a dinner party with the friends that recommended Quitters Inc., and they toast the company for a job well done. As she raises her glass, Dick discovers the friend's wife is missing her little finger. ===The Ledge=== The cat  travels to Atlantic City, New Jersey, where it hears the same disembodied girl's voice asking for his help. Meanwhile, gambler and former tennis pro Johnny Norris  is involved with a woman whose estranged but jealous husband is a crime boss and casino owner Cressner . Cressner, who will bet on anything, wins a wager that the cat will successfully cross the busy road outside his casino. He takes the cat home. Cressner has Norris kidnapped. As an amusing form of revenge, Cressner blackmails Norris into a dangerous ordeal: Norris must circumnavigate the exterior ledge of Cressner's penthouse apartment in a gothic skyscraper. If he can make it all the way around, Cressner will grant his wife a divorce. If Norris refuses, Cressner will call the police and have him arrested for possession of drugs, which have been planted in Norris' Mustang. Norris agrees. During the circumnavigation attempt Cressner appears on balconies and at windows to taunt and distract him. Despite Cressner's efforts, Norris makes it back to the apartment, where Norris learns Mrs. Cressner has been dead the whole time. A fight ensues, leaving Albert  dead and Norris in possession of a gun. Norris forces Cressner to undergo the same ordeal on the ledge, but the casino owner is less successful  and falls to his death while the cat, who escaped during the fight, watches. ===General=== The cat hops a freight train and travels to Wilmington, North Carolina, where it is adopted by a little girl, Amanda , who names him General. The cat runs afoul of the girl's mother , who believes he will harm their pet parakeet. Despite Amanda's protests, the mother puts General out at night. As a consequence, he is unable to protect Amanda from a malevolent troll that has also taken up residence in the house until he manages to find another way in. The troll kills the parakeet and then tries to steal Amanda's breath, but General comes in and battles the troll. The troll escapes, leaving Amanda and her parents to discover the death of the budgie. The parents are convinced that General killed the bird, but the father discovers a wound on the cat  and starts to doubt the mother's belief that the bird caused the wound. General is then taken to the animal shelter by the mother and is scheduled to be euthanized the next day , but General escapes when given food and makes his way back to the girl's house. General again battles and successfully defeats the troll, causing a great deal of noise. The ruckus awakens her parents, who are initially incapable of getting to her due to the door being blocked. Once they manage to get into her room, the girl explains to them that General saved her from the troll. The parents are at first unwilling to believe the story until part of the troll's corpse is discovered as well as the dagger that caused General's wound. Amanda uses the justification that General will keep her safe in case others like her first assailant appear, and General is allowed to stay inside at night to act as a protector for Amanda. The cat finally has a home.