Honey Whitlock  is a Hollywood A-list actress whose public persona is that of a sweet and considerate woman, but who is demanding and mean. She regularly uses profane language and makes unreasonable demands. While in Baltimore to attend a premiere, Honey is kidnapped by the manic film director, Cecil B. Demented  and his band of misfit, Andy Warhol-worshiping artists who have branded themselves "kamikaze filmmakers", going by the group name "SprocketHoles". Each of the SprocketHoles, having infiltrated the staff of the theatre where the premiere is to take place; they subsequently kidnap Honey as she concludes her remarks on stages. In the ensuing mayhem, the group escapes. Honey is taken to an abandoned movie theatre where she's kept captive. Honey is introduced to Cecil's crew of outlandish followers, all of whom have the names of famous film makers tattooed on themselves as well as their own uniquely outlandish quirks. Cecil explains that he wants to make his masterpiece film and needs Honey to star as the lead. Honey first resists and shoots scenes with no emotion but when Cecil demands better results, Honey gives an over the top performance in the movie's opening scene which pleases him. Apart from the first scene Cecil, Honey and the crew run around the city, filming scenes at real  locations, often involving innocent bystanders in the process. The group's first location is a luncheon being hosted by the Baltimore Film Commission. The group crashes the event. Cecil orders Honey to jump off the roof of a nearby building, which she does without safety measures. A gunfight ensues between Cecil's crew and the police. As gunfire is exchanged, Rodney the hairdresser is killed and Cecil is wounded. Honey uses the opportunity to turn herself into the authorities and they take her away in a police car but she is rescued soon after. As Honey seems to become more comfortable with her situation, possibly developing Stockholm Syndrome, she watches a television special discussing her disappearance. Persons who knew her, including her ex-husband , are interviewed and come clean about how mean-spirited she truly was. Honey now realizes that her desire to escape would only lead her back to Hollywood, where she is hated for being rude. She resists the idea of joining Cecil's followers but changes her mind and declares herself "Demented forever", burning a brand into her arm and officially joining the motley crew. After these events, the crew invades the set of the Forrest Gump sequel being filmed in Baltimore, at Honey's suggestion. When the crew arrives they subdue and replace many of the film's crew. A gunfight breaks out between Cecil's friends and teamsters who have got free. Members of Cecil's crew are ethier killed or wounded. The surviving Sprocketholes and Honey flee to a nearby pornographic theatre and seek refuge inside. The audience helps Cecil escape. At their last location, Cecil is shooting the final scene at a local drive-in while law enforcement are alerted. Cecil and the crew take over the projection room and he proceeds to excite the crowd into a frenzy. He asks Honey to light her hair on fire for the final shot . With the film finished, the Sprocketholes start having sex in public before the authorities step in. Cecil sets himself completely ablaze as police arrive to give Honey a chance to run away. In the ensuing chaos, some crew members escape with the raw film footage while others are shot. Honey is taken into custody and is taken aback from the new affection and devotion people have for her as she goes into the police van.