Chameli is the story of a prostitute played by Kareena Kapoor. Aman Kapoor  an investment banker, lost his pregnant wife, Neha  in a car accident on a rainy night. The accident left him depressed and lonely. He drowned his grief with alcohol and smoking. Chameli  is a prostitute who was sold to a brothel by her uncle when she was young. She is now a tough, street-smart woman. On one rainy night, Aman and Chameli, two strangers, meet each other in South Mumbai. The movie starts with Aman narrating, in a party he is throwing but is reluctant to attend. He gets in his car after it starts raining to go home, but at the gate of his residence he decides to go elsewhere. On the way his car breaks down, and his cell phone battery dies and he takes refuge in an alleyway where he meets Chameli. She is plying her trade, and offers him a match for his cigarette. He is initially repulsed by her, but when he scares off a potential customer, he offers to pay for her missed wages. At this point, a young boy comes selling coffee and cigarettes. Chameli is familiar with him and pays his school fees. He promises to come back with a mechanic to fix Aman's stalled vehicle. Next to appear is Raja, who is in love with Haseena, and has made off with Rs 50,000 from his father's safe. Chameli consoles him and takes him away, when Haseena makes an appearance. She is a eunuch, and when Chameli returns, she advises Haseena to run away with Raju to another city with the money. Raju's father and his henchmen turn up looking for them but leave soon afterwards. Chameli's pimp, Usman, has rented her out to Naik, which she isn't very keen on. She avoids Naik's men, and Aman and she go to Sweety bar to meet Usman. There, Aman offers to pay off the rest of the amount that Chameli owes in exchange for not having to entertain Naik. Usman agrees, but at the ATM kiosk he pulls a knife demanding more money, and gets hurt. Then, Aman and Chameli are picked up by the police, when he makes a phone call that brings the Assistant Commissioner of Police K.P. Singh to the Station. They troop to the hospital where Usman is recovering and with a gun to his groin he phones Naik. Singh convinces Naik to back off Chameli. When Aman finally gets back home, he is a changed man, altered by Chameli's philosophy on life. He reconnects with his father-in-law whom he had avoided since his wife's demise. He then returns to see Chameli, and they meet again, as they did when they first met.