Kate Baker  narrates her story about her large family: her husband Tom  is a football coach at a small rural college, Kate is hoping to publish her book about parenting, and while Tom and Kate manage to handle their twelve children, eleven of which live at home. When Tom unexpectedly receives an offer from his old friend, Shake McGuire  to coach at his alma mater, the Bakers moved to Evanston, Illinois for a better home and space despite the protests of their younger children. The family's second child, Charlie , refuses to leave his girlfriend, Beth , and the others simply don't want to leave their friends and home. The atmosphere at the Bakers' new house, which is absolutely huge, is tense, and the situation at school is even worse. The younger children are, in general, harassed at school. Charlie is taunted for being a "country boy", while the family's sixth and seventh children, Jake and Mark  are consistently antagonized by a bully named Quinn , and the Bakers' new neighbours, Tina and Bill Shenk  are very over-protective of their only son, Dylan  and does not want him to play with the younger kids. When her book is ready to pick up for publication, Kate is required to do a national book tour to promote it. Tom thinks that he can handle everything in the family's household without Kate, so he decides to hire the family's oldest child, Nora  and her self-absorbed boyfriend, Hank  to manage the younger children. However, Hank is reluctant since the younger children have attacked him earlier by setting his pants on fire, but Hank agrees. When Nora and Hank arrive, the younger children plans to make Hank the target of their latest antagonistic prank by soaking his underwear in meat and letting the family's pet dog, Gunner attack Hank by chewing his bottom, prompting him to refuse to assist in baby-sitting. As a result, Nora is angry and disappointed at the younger children and drives off with Hank, while Tom berates the younger children for their prank. When Kate departs for the book tour, Tom attempts to hire a housekeeper, but nobody is willing to work with a family as large as the Bakers, so Tom decides to bring all of the football players from work into the family's house for game practising in the living room. After the younger children standing up against the bullies by fighting them and when the principal tells Tom about the incident, Tom grounds the younger children from any fun and games. However, the younger children unexpectedly sneak out of the house to Dylan's birthday party and begin causing chaos. While Tom is teaching the football players how to win and participate for the Saturday night football game, they noticed the younger children crashing Dylan's birthday party and when Tom attempts to grab all the younger children from the bounce house, it causes to explode and shot Tom and the younger children up in the air and Tom accidentally falls onto Dylan, enraging Tina, sends Dylan to the hospital for his arm surgery, even although Dylan thinks that it was his best birthday party ever, and Shake telling Tom not to bring the football players to the family's house again. Meanwhile, Kate hears from the younger children about the chaos and is forced to cancel the book tour to take charge of the situation. Kate's publisher decides to create an additional promotion for her book by inviting Oprah Winfrey to tape a segment about the Bakers in their home. Despite much coaching from Kate, and Kate being furious at Tom for not telling her that he could not handle it, the Bakers are not able to demonstrate the loving, strongly bonded family that Kate described in her book. When Mark becomes upset that his pet frog, Beans has died, a heated fight erupts before the segment starts, leading the cameramen to call Winfrey to cancel the segment. As a result of the fight, Mark feels unwanted and runs away from home, prompting the Bakers to hold their search party to find him. Meanwhile, Nora breaks up with Hank when he is more focused with watching himself on television and helps, gets the police involved and their close friends, Dylan, and Bill to join in the search for Mark. However, the Bakers cannot find Mark until Tom indulges a hunch that Mark is attempting to run back to the family's old home from the beginning of the film, and eventually finds Mark on a train departing from Chicago to Midland, Michigan. Reuniting with the rest of the family, the Bakers realize that they have not been a close family and they begin to address their issues with each other. Ultimately, Tom resigns from his position at his alma mater and settles for a less time-consuming job. The film ends with Kate's narration explaining that the Bakers are closer as a result of their experiences.