In Chicago, circa 1924, naïve Roxie Hart  visits a nightclub, where star Velma Kelly  performs . Roxie is there with Fred Casely , a lover she hopes will get her a vaudeville gig. After the show, Velma is arrested for killing her husband and sister after finding them in bed together. A year passes, and Fred reveals to Roxie that he lied about his connections in order to sleep with her and abandons her, hitting her when she protests. Roxie, enraged, shoots him three times, killing him. Roxie convinces her ever faithful husband, Amos , to take the blame, telling him it was a burglar and that he needn't worry, he'll get off. When the detective brings up evidence that Roxie had been sleeping with Fred, Amos abandons his lie and says Casely was dead when he got home . Roxie is sent to Cook County Jail. Upon her arrival she is sent to Murderess' Row, under the care of the corrupt Matron "Mama" Morton , who takes bribes and supplies her prisoners with cigarettes and contraband  while awaiting trial. Roxie meets Velma, and learns the backstories of the other women in Murderess' Row . Roxie decides that she wants to engage Velma's lawyer, the highly intelligent Billy Flynn  , and convinces her husband to talk to him. Flynn and Roxie manipulate the press at a press conference, reinventing Roxie's identity to make Chicago fall in love with her . Roxie becomes the new infamous celebrity of the Cook County Jail , much to Velma's disgust and Mama's delight. Velma, desperate to get back into the limelight, tries to talk Roxie into opening a vaudeville act with her once they get out of jail . Seeking revenge for an earlier mocking, Roxie haughtily refuses, and Roxie and Velma become locked in a rivalry to outshine each other. After an heiress  is arrested for a triple homicide , Roxie finds herself ignored by the paparazzi and neglected by Flynn. After being told by Velma that her name isn't in the paper, Roxie manages to steal back the limelight by claiming to be pregnant, which is confirmed by a doctor, whom it is implied she seduced. As paparazzi chase Roxie, Amos remains ignored . Roxie witnesses the execution by hanging of Hunyak  after losing her last appeal, which fuels Roxie's desire to be free. Roxie and Billy design their scheme to prove her innocence, by using her star power and sympathy vote. Her trial becomes a media spectacle , fed on the sensationalist reports of newspaper reporter and radio personality, Mary Sunshine . The trial goes Roxie's way until Velma shows up with Roxie's diary. In exchange for amnesty, Velma reads incriminating entries from the diary that could convict Roxie; however, Billy manages to get her off the hook by forcing Velma to admit that she had been given the diary by someone Billy strongly implies to be the prosecuting attorney. Roxie's publicity after her release is short-lived: as soon as the trial concludes, the public's attention turns to a new murderess. Roxie leaves the courthouse after Billy tells her that it is Chicago and she can't beat fresh blood off the walls. He also reveals that he gave Velma the diary after doctoring it to ensure that it could be used to incriminate the DA, allowing him to free two clients at once. Roxie reveals to Amos she faked her pregnancy for the fame. It is implied, but never stated, that Amos leaves her at this point. With nothing left, Roxie once more sets off to find a stage career, with little success . However, she is soon approached by Velma, also down on her luck, who is willing to revive a two-person act with Roxie. Roxie refuses at first, still not over the hate they shared for each other while in prison, but relents when Velma points out that "there's only one business in the world where that's not a problem at all: show business." The two murderesses, no longer facing jail time, finally become the enormous successes they have been longing to be . The film concludes with Roxie and Velma receiving a standing ovation from an enthusiastic audience that includes Mama and Billy.