In 1954, against a backdrop of McCarthyism, six strangers are invited to a party in a secluded New England mansion. They are met by the house butler, Wadsworth , who reminds them each that they have been given pseudonyms to protect their true identity. During dinner the seventh attendee, Mr. Boddy , arrives. After dinner, Wadsworth reveals the true nature of the party: all of the guests are being blackmailed to hide their secrets: * Professor Plum , a psychiatrist who lost his license because he had an affair with a female patient. He now works for the World Health Organization. * Mrs. Peacock , a Senator's wife who has accepted bribes to deliver her husband's vote. * Mrs. White , an alleged black widow who was drawn in to avoid a scandal regarding the mysterious death of her nuclear physicist husband. She was previously married to an illusionist, who disappeared under mysterious circumstances. * Miss Scarlet , a madam who operates an illegal brothel in Washington, D.C. * Colonel Mustard  is thought at first to have been blackmailed for scandalous pictures, but it is later revealed that he was a war profiteer who made his money from selling stolen radio components on the black market. He now works at The Pentagon. * Mr. Green  is a homosexual which was a secret that would cost him his job with the State Department if it were widely known. Finally, Wadsworth reveals Mr. Boddy's secret: he is the one who has been blackmailing them. Wadsworth has gathered all the guests together to confront Mr. Boddy and turn him over to the police, which he later reveals is his revenge against Mr. Boddy, who is his former employer, because Boddy's blackmail had resulted in Wadsworth's wife committing suicide.  Mr. Boddy reminds the guests that he can reveal their secrets in police custody and offers them an alternative proposition: by using weapons that he has provided to each of them, they can kill Wadsworth and destroy the evidence, keeping their secrets safe. Mr. Boddy turns out the lights in the room, creating a moment of chaos, in which someone shoots the gun. When they are brought back up, Mr. Boddy is dead, seemingly murdered by an unknown cause in the study . The guests all quickly deny killing him, and are later proven right as Mr. Boddy  is ultimately found murdered with the candlestick in the hall. Wadsworth and the guests try to deduce who killed Mr. Boddy by exploring the house. During their slapstick explorations, Mrs. Ho, the cook  has been murdered with the dagger in the kitchen. During the course of the evening three others who visit the house: a stranded motorist , a police officer  investigating the motorist's abandoned car, and a singing telegram girl , are all killed with the wrench, the lead pipe, and the revolver; in the lounge, the library, and the front hall, respectively. Yvette, the maid  is strangled in the billiard room with the rope as well. Wadsworth comes to the conclusion that he knows who the murderer is, and runs through a frantic, madcap re-enactment of the entire evening with the guests in tow. Wadsworth points out that the victims were Boddy's accomplices in blackmail. Each of them had a connection to one of the guests, enabling Boddy to find out what secrets to blackmail them over. In preparation to reveal the murderer of Mr. Boddy, Wadsworth turns off the electricity to the house. At this point, the story proceeds to one of three endings: A, B, or C. In the film's initial theatrical run, some theaters announced which ending the viewer would see.Clue Review - Roger Ebert. December 12, 1985. In the VHS home video and releases, and most television broadcasts, the three endings are shown sequentially, with the first two characterized as possible endings, but ending C being the true one. The DVD home release also provides the option of a random single ending. ===Ending A=== Miss Scarlet is the culprit in the first ending. Having used her former call girl Yvette to murder Mr. Boddy and the cook, she herself killed Yvette and the others to keep her true business of "secrets " safe, planning on using the information learned tonight for her own benefit. While Miss Scarlet holds the group at gunpoint with the revolver, Wadsworth tries to tell her that she used up all the bullets in the gun but she tells him she still has one and threatens to kill him. Wadsworth reveals himself to be an undercover FBI agent and arrests Miss Scarlet as police secure the house. Finally, insisting to Miss Scarlet the revolver is empty, Wadsworth accidentally fires the last bullet into the air, hitting another chandelier, and causing it to crash closely behind Colonel Mustard. ===Ending B=== Mrs. Peacock is revealed as the murderer of all the victims, and escapes after holding the others at gunpoint. However, Wadsworth reveals himself as an FBI agent with the night's activities set up to spy on Mrs. Peacock's activities, believing her to be taking bribes by foreign powers, and the police quickly capture her as she flees. ===Ending C=== It is revealed that multiple people committed all of the murders. Professor Plum killed Mr. Boddy; Mrs. Peacock killed the cook, who had been informing on her to Mr. Boddy; Colonel Mustard killed the motorist, who was his driver during the war; Mrs. White killed Yvette for having an affair with her husband; Miss Scarlet killed the cop, whom she had been paying bribes to in order to stay in business and the singing telegram girl was shot and killed by Wadsworth. It is revealed that Wadsworth is the true Mr. Boddy, and that the "Mr. Boddy" who was killed was his own butler. Wadsworth had brought the other victims  to the house to be killed by the guests, and thus plans to continue to extort his blackmail scheme over them. Mr. Green then draws a revolver and kills the real Mr. Boddy in the Hall. Mr. Green reveals that he was actually a plant . The police raid the house and arrest the other guests for murder. It is also revealed that his earlier stated homosexuality was part of his cover, signified by his final line in the movie: "Okay, Chief, take 'em away. I'm gonna go home and sleep with my wife."{{Cite web}}