Cab driver Max Durocher  drives U.S. Justice Department prosecutor Annie Farrell  to her office where she prepares for a drug indictment case. Annie takes a liking to Max, leaving him her business card. Vincent  enters the cab next, giving Max $600 for chauffeuring him to five appointments. As Max waits at the first stop, Vincent enters an apartment complex and shoots drug dealer Ramón Ayala. Ayala unexpectedly falls out of the window directly onto the cab, forcing Vincent to reveal himself as a hitman. He coerces Max to hide the body in the trunk, clean up the car and continue with their arrangement. However Max is pulled over by police due to damage from Ayala's impact, but just before the officers can investigate, they are summoned to a higher priority call. Vincent then leaves Max tied to the steering wheel in an alley as he murders attorney Sylvester Clarke. Max calls for help from a group passing by, who proceed to rob him and steal Vincent's briefcase, but Vincent returns and kills them. Vincent then brings Max to a jazz club to drink with club owner Daniel Baker  after it closes. Max witnesses Vincent execute Baker when he incorrectly answers a question about Miles Davis and suffers a panic attack. Vincent then insists Max visit his mother Ida  in the hospital to avoid breaking routine. He pretends to be Max's colleague and develops a rapport with Ida, which upsets Max, who then runs out with the briefcase and tosses it off a bridge onto the freeway. With his target list destroyed, Vincent forces Max to meet drug lord Felix Reyes-Torrena , threatening to murder Max's mother otherwise. Posing as Vincent, Max meets with Felix and successfully acquires a USB flash drive listing the last two targets. Felix orders his men to follow Max and eliminate him should he fail. Plugging the flash drive into the cab's computer Vincent and Max acquire the details of the next target, Korean gangster Peter Lim, who is at a nightclub. Meanwhile, LAPD detective Ray Fanning  uncovers the connection between the three victims and reports his finding to FBI special agent Frank Pedrosa , who identifies the targets as witnesses for the pending indictment case against Felix. Pedrosa assembles a force to secure witness Lim and converges on the crowded nightclub simultaneously with Vincent, who in turn is being followed by Felix's men. Vincent manages to execute all of Lim's guards, Felix's hitmen and Lim himself, before slipping out of the club amid the chaos. Fanning rescues Max and smuggles him outside, but is killed by Vincent, who beckons Max back into the cab. Following their getaway, the two get into an argument over their lives. Max snaps, speeds through the empty streets and deliberately crashes the cab. Vincent takes off on foot before a policeman arrives at the wreck and notices the corpse in the trunk. Max spots Annie's profile on the cab computer and realizes she is Vincent's final target. He overpowers the policeman and takes Vincent's gun before running to Annie's building and her office. He tries to phone her as the signal cuts off, but manages to get into her office and saves her by shooting Vincent, allowing them to escape. Max and Annie board a metro rail train with Vincent in pursuit. Boxed in and left with no other option, Max makes his last stand. Firing blindly as the train lights flicker, Max mortally wounds Vincent in a shootout while emerging unscathed. Vincent slumps into a seat and dies as he repeats an anecdote heard earlier about a man who died on a train and went unnoticed for six hours. Max and Annie then get off at the next station, in the dawn of a new day.