Tired of being rejected by the beautiful women he lusts after, Chuck Barris  moves to Manhattan to become an NBC page with dreams of becoming famous in television, but is eventually fired. He moves back to Philadelphia and becomes Dick Clark's personal assistant on American Bandstand in 1961. There, he writes the successful "Palisades Park" song and falls in love with a woman named Penny Pacino . Chuck is given permission to pitch the concept for The Dating Game at the American Broadcasting Company ; he receives $7,500 to create a television pilot for the studio. However, ABC abandons The Dating Game in favor of Hootenanny. One night after Barris is kicked out of a bar for fighting, he is approached by CIA agent Jim Byrd , who recruits him as an assassin. Returning from a mission in Mexico, Barris finds that Penny has become a hippie. Meanwhile, ABC decides to greenlight The Dating Game, and by 1967 the TV show is a phenomenon. Barris takes another mission for the CIA in Helsinki, Finland, where he meets gorgeous operative Patricia Watson . He finds more success back home when The Newlywed Game goes on air. He and Penny decide to move to Los Angeles into a house, but Barris is cautious of marriage, much to Penny's dismay. The journey in Barris' life is tied in to the story of Thomas Carlyle's main character in Sartor Resartus, Teufelsdröckh, and this parallel is referred to throughout the film. In 1970, Byrd convinces Barris to go on another mission in West Berlin to assassinate communist Hans Colbert. There, Barris is introduced to German-American agent Keeler  and is held captive by the KGB for some weeks. In 1976 Los Angeles, Barris creates The Gong Show and becomes even more famous as its host; he is also criticized for lowering the general quality of television. Meanwhile, Keeler is murdered and Byrd warns Chuck of a mole in the agency. His TV shows are canceled due to poor ratings, and Penny threatens to leave him after catching him cheating on her. One night, Barris finds Byrd sitting atop the diving board of his backyard pool. Byrd reveals to Barris why he "fit the profile" of a CIA assassin, and mysteriously dies. Faced with the unpleasant truth about himself, Barris begins to spiral out of control. After almost having a nervous breakdown on his own show, Barris shuts himself away in a New York City hotel. Penny manages to find him there, and tries in vain to convince him to return to California to get married. Barris finally leaves his room and confronts Patricia in Boston. There, he finds that she is the mole Byrd warned him about. Barris kills Patricia and begins to write his autobiography, Confessions of a Dangerous Mind. He finally decides to marry Penny. After the ceremony, he confesses to her his double life as a CIA agent and assassin, but she merely laughs, assuming he is joking, and he decides not to correct her. In 2002, he prepares for an interview for the film adaptation of his autobiography.