Nia Vardalos and Toni Collette play the titular characters, whose lifelong friendship and co-obsession with musical theater have brought nothing but career dead ends. Despite this they continue their optimism, hosting a variety act at an airport lounge. After accidentally witnessing a mafia hit in Chicago, they go on the run, landing in Los Angeles. Initially working at a beauty salon, they wind up posing as drag queens and auditioning to host a drag revue at a gay club. Because they sing their own songs , they are hired, and their variety show (first entitled What a Drag  becomes a hit. Things are going smoothly but the two make a pact not to let men interfere with their life. This causes conflict when Connie falls for Jeff , the straight brother of Robert , one of their drag queen friends. As the show gets bigger, the two convince the club owner, Stanley , to convert it into a full dinner theater, and eventually their popularity threatens to expose them. On the official opening night of the dinner theater, the mob killers catch up with them, but with the help of their drag queen friends, and to great applause from the audience , Connie and Carla take them down. They ultimately confess their real identities to the audience and are accepted for who they are. Connie reveals herself to Jeff, who arrives after the chaos. He accepts her and becomes her boyfriend. ===Musicals referenced or featured=== The following is a list of musicals referenced or featured in the film : * Oklahoma! - Connie and Carla perform "Oklahoma!" as young girls in their school lunchroom and in the airport lounge and "I Cain't Say No" during their audition at The Handlebar. * Jesus Christ Superstar - Connie and Carla perform "Superstar" in the airport lounge and "Everything's Alright" during their first performance at The Handlebar. * Yentl - Connie and Carla perform "Papa, Can You Hear Me?" in the airport lounge. * Cats - Connie and Carla perform "Memory" in the airport lounge. * The Rocky Horror Show - Peaches 'n' Creme perform "The Time Warp" at The Handlebar. * Cabaret - Connie and Carla perform "Maybe This Time" at their audition at The Handlebar. * Evita - Connie and Carla perform "Don't Cry for Me, Argentina" at their audition at The Handlebar. * Mame - Interludes during the picture with the character Tibor seeing several performances of Mame. * South Pacific - "I'm Gonna Wash That Man Right Outa My Hair", is part of Connie and Carla's performance in What a Drag  at The Handlebar. They also sing "There Is Nothing Like a Dame" at the end of the film with the rest of the main cast. * Funny Girl - Connie and Carla sing "Don't Rain on My Parade", part of their performance in What a Drag  at The Handlebar. * Thoroughly Modern Millie, The Producers, Say Goodnight, Gracie, Never Gonna Dance, Gypsy, Chicago, Mamma Mia!, Long Days Journey into Night, Master Harold...and the Boys, Avenue Q, Man of La Mancha, and Hairspray - Billboards for these shows are shown. * Gypsy, Rent, and Hairspray - At this point in the film, these are mentioned by Tibor, Hairspray, of which, he got a matinée ticket, though no songs from the shows are sung. The theater productions of Rent, Hairspray, and Mamma Mia! became semi-successful movie musicals shortly after this film. * Gypsy - "Let Me Entertain You" is performed by Connie, Carla, and the Belles of the Balls. * Hair - Connie says the guys should enter from the back of the house on "Good Morning, Starshine". * The Music Man - Debbie Reynolds says they should enter from the back of the house on "Seventy-Six Trombones". * Grease - Debbie Reynolds, Connie, Carla, and the Belles of the Balls sing "There Are Worse Things I Could Do". * A Chorus Line - Connie and Carla sing "What I Did for Love". * Guys and Dolls - Connie mentions "the Guys and Dolls tribute."