Following the scenario of Night of the Living Dead, the United States  is devastated by a phenomenon which reanimates recently deceased human beings as flesh-eating zombies, for causes unknown. Despite efforts by the U.S. Government and local civil authorities to control the situation, society has effectively collapsed and the remaining survivors seek refuge. Some rural citizens and the military have been effective in fighting the zombies in open country; but cities are helpless. The chaos has apparently spread throughout the country, as evident by infrequent television and radio broadcasts. Confusion reigns at the WGON television studio in Philadelphia by the pandemic's third week, where staff member Stephen and his girlfriend Francine are planning to steal the station's traffic helicopter to escape the zombies. Meanwhile, Roger and his SWAT team raid an apartment building where the residents are ignoring the martial law of delivering the dead to National Guardsmen. Some residents attack with rifles, and are slaughtered by the SWAT operatives and by their own reanimated dead. During the raid, Roger meets Peter, part of another SWAT team, with whom he kills the zombies concealed below the building. That night, Roger and Peter escape Philadelphia with Francine and Stephen via helicopter. Following some close calls while stopping for fuel, the group comes across a shopping mall, which becomes their sanctuary. To make the mall safe for habitation, they kill its zombie population and block the entrance to keep the zombies outside from entering. During the operation, Roger becomes infected by the zombies' mutagen; but after clearing the mall of its zombies, the four live hedonistically upon its contents. Later, they come to perceive themselves imprisoned by the zombies, and reveal that Francine is four months pregnant. The men begin to consider leaving the mall; Stephen opposes the plan, but teaches Francine how to operate the helicopter in case of emergency. Roger eventually succumbs to his wounds, reanimates, and is shot by Peter. All emergency broadcast transmissions have ceased, suggesting that most civilization around them has collapsed. Later, a gang of motorcyclists sees the helicopter during one of Francine's training sessions and invade the mall, which allows hundreds of the zombies inside. While helping Peter fighting the bikers, Stephen is shot by in the arm and tries to escape through an elevator shaft, but is attacked by zombies. While defending himself against the undead marauders, he is bitten on the leg and neck, whereupon he succumbs to his wounds and dies. As the zombies consume many of the bikers, the survivors retreat with their stolen goods. Hours later, zombies open the elevator doors and reveal Stephen, now a zombie, who leads a large group of the undead to Francine and Peter. As Stephen enters the room, Peter kills Stephen while Francine escapes to the roof. He then locks himself in a room and contemplates suicide by pointing a gun to his head. However, when a zombie bursts into the room, Peter changes his mind and fights his way up to the roof, where he joins Francine. The two then fly away in the partially fueled helicopter to an uncertain future. ===Alternate ending=== According to the original screenplay, Peter and Francine were to kill themselves, and the ending credits would run over a shot of the helicopter's blades turning until the engine winds down.Dawn Of The Dead Script at Script-o-Rama During production it was decided to change the ending of the film. Much of the foreshadowing of the two suicides remained in the film, as when Francine waits for Peter and Peter puts a gun to his head, ready to shoot himself. An additional scene, showing a zombie having the top of its head cut off by the helicopter  was included early in the film. Romero has stated that the original ending was scrapped before being shot, although behind the scenes photos show the original version was at least tested. The head appliance made for Fran's suicide was instead depicted shot from its owner during the SWAT raid, made-up to resemble a bearded African American male.Alternate 'Dawn' ending surfaces. at Horrorexpress.com