Debbie Benton  is the captain of her high school cheerleading squad, and has been accepted to try out for the Texas Cowgirls. Her parents disapprove, though, and refuse to pay the fare to Texas. In a bid to help Debbie, her cheerleader friends Lisa , Roberta , Tammy , Pat , and Annie  decide to accompany her to Texas. They have two weeks to raise the money, and swear off any sexual activity with their boyfriends and form a company, called "Teen Services", offering help. Tammy takes a job in the local record store run by Tony . Debbie gets a job at a sports store run by Mr. Greenfield . Roberta convinces Mr. Hardwick  to give her a job at the candle store with Mrs. Hardwick . Rikki  and Annie agree to wash Mr. Bradly's car. The football team is annoyed with its lack of sex. Roberta's boyfriend Rick  and his teammates join Roberta and Pat in the showers where they have group sex. While working for Mr. Greenfield at the sports store, Debbie is talked in to allowing Mr Greenfield to see her breasts for $10, fondle her breasts for another $10, then he sucks them for an additional $20. Realising that they will not be able to raise enough money by legitimate means, Debbie convinces the other girls to engage in sexual activities for more money. They agree but only if it is on their terms. Roberta is caught masturbating by Mrs. Hardwick. She engages in sexual activity with both Mr and Mrs Hardwick, earning extra money. Rikki and Annie go to see Mr. Bradly , to wash his car. Mr. Bradly is not home, but they wash the car anyway. When Mr. Bradly arrives home he asks them in to dry off their wet clothes. They undress for him for $10 each. He performs oral sex on them, then has anal sex with Annie. At the library Donna  flirts with Mr Biddle, the librarian. Her boyfriend Tim  visits her attempting to have sex with her. She fellates him but is caught by Mr Biddle . She allows him to spank her to prevent him from telling her parents. Hamilton  and his friend Ashly  are in the tennis club sauna after a tennis game, and Hamilton convinces Lisa to fellate him while Ashly penetrates her. At the record store, Tammy has been avoiding Tony's advances; she calls Lisa who joins them at the record store. Lisa offers Tony "anything" and she begins to fellate him, then Tammy joins in, and he ejaculates on Tammy's breasts. Debbie dresses as a "Texas Cowgirl" and goes to see Mr. Greenfield after hours at the store. She fellates him, he then penetrates her vagina with his finger and performs cunnilingus on her. Then they engage in sex, first in the missionary position, then doggy style, and then with Debbie on top. They finish in the missionary position before Mr. Greenfield ejaculates on Debbie.