The story is of two British born Indians named Raj Malhotra  and Simran . Though having been brought up in Britain, Raj and Simran both value their Indian roots but the two have different parenting. Simran has been raised by her conservative father Baldev  whilst Raj's father  is more liberal. Simran has always dreamt of a boy she describes as Prince Charming, believing he is the one for her. Her mother Lajjo  warns her against this, saying these dreams will never come true. Baldev soon receives a letter from his friend Ajit  who lives in Punjab. Ajit wants to keep a promise he and Baldev made to each other 20 years ago&nbsp;— to make Simran marry Kuljeet, Ajit's son. Simran is disappointed by this news&nbsp;— she does not want to marry somebody who she has never met before. Meanwhile, Raj has failed his degree which surprisingly makes his father proud of him. Raj asks his father if he can go on the Eurail with his friends&nbsp;— a trip around Europe, his father automatically agrees. Later, Raj enters Baldev's shop and steals some beer which infuriates Baldev, making him call Raj a disgrace to Indians. Simran is also invited by her friends on the Eurail. Simran tells her father that she thinks she should be allowed to go because it will her last chance to see the world before she marries a complete stranger. Baldev lets her go but tells her not to betray his trust. On the Eurorail, Raj and Simran meet. Raj constantly flirts with Simran much to her irritation. Then, the two miss their train to Zurich and are separated from their friends. They start to travel with one another and become friends in the process. Raj falls in love with Simran&nbsp;— on the journey&nbsp;— and when they both part ways back in London, Simran also realises that she is in love with him, too. Simran tells her mother about Raj&nbsp;— Baldev overhears the conversation and is furious with Simran. He says they will leave for India the next day for good. Raj tells his father about Simran and that she is to be married soon. When Raj says he believes Simran loves him too, his father encourages him to go after her. Raj arrives at her house, only to find she has already left for India. In India, Baldev is delighted to be reuinted with Ajit as well as all his relatives. Simran and her younger sister, Chutki meet Kuljeet and instantly dislike him due to his arragonce. Simran still cannot forget Raj and is miserable about having to marry Kuljeet. Her mother tells her to forget him because she knows that Baldev will not accept it. Baldev vows that Simran will regret it if she does not forget Raj. The next morning, Simran runs out to the fields and finds Raj there. She begs him to take her and run away because she knows her father will never let them be together. Raj refuses and says he will only marry Simran with her father's consent. Raj befriends Kuljeet and is quickly accepted by his and Simran's family, all with the exception of Baldev who is still angry about Raj stealing from his shop. Soon Raj's father arrives in India and also becomes good friends with everyone. Raj and Simran hatch a number of plans in order to avoid her wedding to Kuljeet. Firstly, they make it look as though Simran cut her finger so she does not have to wear an engagement ring. Secondly, Simran pretends to faint during her Karva Chaud fast so that Raj can feed her later. Eventually Lajjo and Chutki realise that Raj is the one who Simran met in Europe. Lajjo tells Raj and Simran to run away&nbsp;— Raj still refuses. Baldev and Raj become good friends until Baldev discovers a photograph of Raj and Simran in Europe and realises Raj is the boy Simran had told them about. He openly insults Raj and tells him to leave the house and never come back. Raj arrives at the station. Kuljeet and his friends arrive and start to attack Raj, leaving him unconscious. Raj's father soon comes to Raj's defence and is also attacked, which motivates Raj to fight back. Eventually Baldev and Ajit arrive at the station and stop Raj, who boards the train with his father. Simran soon arrives with her mother and sister. She tries to join Raj on the train but Baldev stops her. Simran begs him to let her go, saying she cannot live without Raj. Baldev finally comes to his senses and realises that nobody can love his daughter more than Raj does. He motivates her to join Raj, which she does happily, while the train picks up speed.