Growing up, friends Mitch Weaver  and Sam McKenna  are taught by Sam's hard-nosed dad Pops McKenna  not to "take crap from anyone". To that end, the pair plant a bunch of guns on a bully and have him arrested for gun possession and catch a kid-fondling crossing guard in the act with glue. As adults, after losing fourteen jobs in three months and being dumped by his girlfriend, Mitch moves in with Sam and Pops, who then has a heart attack. In the hospital, Pops confides that, because of their parents' swinging lifestyle, he is also Mitch's father. Even though Pops' heart is failing, Dr. Farthing , a hopeless gambler, will only raise his position on the transplant waiting list if he is paid $50,000, to save him from his bookie. Mitch and Sam get jobs in a cinema with an abusive manager  and exact their revenge by showing "Men In Black " to a packed house. The other workers congratulate them and suggest they go into business. Mitch and Sam open "Dirty Work", a revenge-for-hire business . Mitch falls for a woman named Kathy  who works for a shady used car dealer . After publicly embarrassing the dealer during a live TV commercial, the duo exacts increasingly lucrative reprisals for satisfied customers until they interfere with unscrupulous local property developer Travis Cole . Cole tricks them into destroying "his" apartment building , promising to pay them enough to save Pops. Afterwards, Cole reneges, revealing that he is not the owner and that he had them vandalize the building so that he could buy it cheaply, evict the tenants , and build a parking lot for his luxurious new opera house. Unknown to Cole, Mitch's "note to self"{{cite book}}  mini-tape recorder captures this confession. Mitch and Sam plot their revenge on Cole, using the tape to set up an elaborate trap. Using skunks, an army of prostitutes, homeless men, a noseless friend , brownies with hallucinogenic additives, and Pops, they ruin the opening night of Don Giovanni, an opera sponsored prominently by Cole. With the media present, Mitch plays back Cole's confession over the theater's sound system. Cole sees that his public image is being tarnished and agrees to pay the $50,000. In the end, Cole is punched in the stomach, arrested and jailed, his dog is raped by a skunk, Pops gets his operation, and Mitch gets the girl. Dr. Farthing overcomes his gambling habit but is beaten to death by bookies in the end.