{{cleanup}} The film begins in a Los Angeles restaurant, where the main character, a waitress named Slim, works with her best friend, Ginny. Slim receives unwelcome romantic advances from a customer who complimented her on her slim figure but made fun of her name. She reveals that "Slim" is not her real name, and she refuses to reveal her real name. Then she is rescued by a guy named Mitch Hiller. They later marry and have a daughter named Gracie. A few years later, Slim finds out that Mitch is unfaithful and was cheating on her with another woman named Darcelle . When she confronts him, he tells her the other women meant nothing. But Slim's sadness turns to anger and she threatens to leave. Mitch becomes violent, slapping and punching her in the face. He tells her that since he makes the money, he gets to do what he wants. He says he will not break the affair off and she has to deal with that, unless she wants to fight. When he leaves, she picks up the phone to call his mother. He taps on the window when he catches her, asking her who she's calling, and why. She says she's calling his mother, but lies when she gives her reasons. He believes her, and leaves. When Slim approaches her mother-in-law about the incident, she asks Slim what she had done to make Mitch angry, indicating that Mitch's behavior isn't a surprise to her. Slim then goes and talks to Ginny. Ginny tells her she should leave, but Slim isn't sure. When she goes to pick Gracie up from school, her teacher says that Gracie was already picked up by her father. She panics and goes home. The house is empty. She calls Mitch, who tells her that Gracie is with him at the zoo. He hints to her that he can get to Gracie as easy as she can. At dinner that night, he tells her he knew she told his mother, but he stays civil on the count of Gracie being present. Slim decides that enough is enough, and plans to escape. A few days later Slim, having carefully planned her escape, leaves and takes Gracie with her. With the help of her friends, who wait outside in a van, she makes it to the door. But Mitch stops her while she's about to leave. He then attacks and kicks her, which leaves a bruise. He threatens Slim's friends with a gun, who run into the house after hearing Slim scream. Mitch says he will plant drugs in her car, making her look like an addict - that way he'll have sole custody of Gracie by the end of the week. But with her friend's help, she and Gracie escape. But Mitch relentlessly hunts her down, freezing her credit cards, forcing her friends to help her out financially. Mrs. Hiller, Mitch's mother, calls them to check on them but they have to keep their calls short. Slim takes Gracie to Seattle, to meet her ex-boyfriend Joe, but they are visited by a couple of Mitch's friends, disguised as FBI agents investigating a kidnapping, and then to San Francisco to see her grandfather, , since she knows they both are in perilous danger. The man, named Jupiter, claims that Slim is not his daughter and gives them only $12, thinking they are homeless and want money. Slim leaves, hardhearted at Jupiter, and moves with Gracie to Michigan. However, after Jupiter is threatened by Mitch's men, he decides to help. He sends them enough money for a house. While at their new home in Michigan, Slim changes her name to Erin Shleeter, and the future looks clear and bright. Slim tells Gracie not to call her Slim. Gracie responds that she won't because she doesn't think Slim is that slim. But Mitch tracks her down from traced calls from payphone at gas stations around the area. As he attacks Slim, saying he wants her back, Gracie witnesses the attack and tries to stop her father. But Mitch pushes her out of the way. A car chase ensues, but Slim has made preparations for an escape and they are able to do so again. Gracie seems scared and has become quite silent, but doesn't want her mother to tell her what happened. Eventually Slim goes into hiding in San Francisco, hires a woman who looks like her to keep her cover, and sends Gracie on vacation to Hawaii with her best friend to get her out of harm's way. She prepares herself with self-defense trainer  who teaches her Krav Maga, since self defense is not murder. He tells her the hardest lesson - if he hits her, hold on to his voice and awaken when he is about to attack or kick her. She returns to Los Angeles, breaks into Mitch's new home and traps him there, hiding his guns and blocking the phone connections, so he cannot call the police. As he says he can not hit her, she asks him why he could do it before when she was defenseless. In the ensuing fight Slim uses her new skills. She calls Ginny saying she can not kill him, and while she is distracted Mitch hits her from behind with a lamp. Slim repeats what she learned in her lessons and trips, beats and kicks him in the chest to send him off a balcony to his death. With Mitch no longer a threat, Slim and Gracie go on to live a happy life in Seattle with Joe.