Virginia "Gin" Baker  is an investigator for Waverly Insurance. Robert "Mac" MacDougal  is an international art thief. A priceless Rembrandt painting is stolen from an office one night. Gin is sent to investigate Mac as the chief suspect. She tries to entrap him with a proposition, claiming that she is a thief herself. She promises that she will help him steal a priceless Chinese mask from the well-guarded Bedford Palace. Before agreeing, Mac tells Gin Rule Number One: "How do I know you're not a cop?" They travel to Scotland and plan the complicated theft at Mac's hideout: an isolated castle. While Mac is busy making final preparations, Gin contacts her boss, Hector Cruz , and informs him of Mac's whereabouts. Little does she know that the island is bugged, allowing Mac to eavesdrop on their conversation. After they complete the theft, Mac accuses Gin of planning to sell the mask to a buyer in Kuala Lumpur and then turn him in. Gin convinces him that her insurance agency job is a cover, and that she has planned an even bigger heist in Kuala Lumpur: $8 billion from the International Clearance Bank in the Petronas Towers. Despite the presence of Cruz and other security watching the building the theft takes place in the final seconds of the new 2000 millennium countdown. Gin pulls the plug on her laptop prematurely and sets off alarms. They narrowly escape the computer vault and are forced to cross the lights hung from the bottom of the bridge linking the two towers. Following a death-defying escape when the cable breaks, Gin and Mac make their way to a ventilation shaft, where Mac explains "plan B." Using a micro-parachute they were going to escape down the shaft. Gin lost her parachute earlier in the escape, so Mac gives her his. He tells her to meet him the next morning at the Pudu train station. Gin arrives at the station waiting for Mac. He shows up late with Cruz and the FBI. He explains that the FBI has been looking for her for some time. When he was caught, Mac made a deal to help the agency arrest Gin. However, the aging thief has another plan: to let her go. Mac slips Gin a gun and she holds Mac hostage, threatening to shoot him if the agents follow her. She boards a train and the FBI heads to the next station. Gin jumps trains mid-station and arrives back at Pudu. She tells Mac that she needs him for another job and they both board a train.