On August 23, 2000, an earthquake strikes Los Angeles, causing the San Fernando Valley to flood and turning a portion of California into an island, from Malibu to Anaheim. An American presidential candidate , who is also an outspoken Christian theocrat, has been saying that L.A. is a "city of sin", and that, "Like the mighty hand of God, waters will rise up and separate this sinful, sinful city, from our country". The candidate is shortly elected President and, by an amendment to the Constitution of the United States, his term is made permanent. The President's new policies include relocating the capital from Washington, D.C. to his hometown of Lynchburg, Virginia, and declaring that anyone not conforming to the new "Moral America" laws he creates  will be deported to Los Angeles Island or can choose death by electrocution as an alternative. A containment wall is built around the island with armed guards and watchtowers posted, and those sent to the island are exiled permanently. In 2013, Cuervo Jones , a Shining Path Peruvian Revolutionary, seduces the President's daughter, Utopia , via a holographic system and brainwashes her into stealing her father's remote control to the "Sword of Damocles" super weapon&mdash;a series of satellites capable of destroying electronics anywhere on the planet, driving target areas back into the Dark Ages. The President intends to use the system to destroy America's enemies' "ability to function", and eventually dominate the world. While traveling aboard Air Force Three, Utopia leaves the plane in an escape pod and lands on L.A. Island to join Cuervo. With the satellites under his control, Cuervo promises to take back America with the assistance of an allied invasion force of third world nations that are standing by to attack. He claims that if the President tries to stop him, he will "pull the plug" on the country and black out the capital. In addition, Cuervo also knows the secret world code that can knock out power for the entire planet. Snake Plissken is captured for another series of crimes and is scheduled to be exiled to the island. Upon his arrival for deportation, he meets the President and is offered the mission of retrieving the weapon in exchange for a full pardon for all the crimes Snake has ever committed, if he is successful. The President indicates he does not care whether Utopia is returned or not, declaring her a traitor. To ensure Snake's compliance, he is infected with the man-made Plutoxin 7 virus that will kill him within ten hours. If he completes the mission, Snake will be given an antidote and cured of the virus. After acquiring all of the necessary equipment and making his way across the island via personal submarine, Snake meets "Map to the Stars" Eddie , a swindler who sells interactive tours of L.A. Shortly after a failed attempt at retrieving the device from Cuervo, Snake meets up with his old friend Carjack Malone, who has since become the transsexual gang leader Hershe Las Palmas . Together with Hershe and her gang, Snake stages a final assault on Cuervo's forces. Snake defeats Cuervo at his staging area of The Happy Kingdom By The Sea and takes the remote control. He leaves the island with Utopia and some other Cuervo resistors in a helicopter. Eddie mortally wounds Cuervo, but the revolutionary fires a rocket launcher at the helicopter. Seeing the incoming rocket, Eddie leaps off the aircraft, landing on an awning. The rocket hits the helicopter and kills those in the back of the chopper; Snake and Utopia bail out before it crashes. When the President's men reach the crash site, Snake intentionally hands off the wrong remote to the President while Utopia is taken to the electric chair, despite her pleas for forgiveness. The Plutoxin 7 virus is revealed to be nothing more than a fast, hard-hitting case of the flu. The President tries using the satellites to stop a Cuban invasion force threatening Florida. Activating the remote, the President hears only Eddie's "Map to the Stars" intro over "I Love L.A.". The President orders Snake's execution, but Snake tricks him and his troops by using a holographic illusion of himself. Seeing the problem of one man having such power over the world, Snake activates the real control device and enters the world code, against the President's pleas to stop. Within seconds, all technology worldwide is shut down by the satellites; as a result, Utopia is saved since she can't be electrocuted. On another side of the forest, Snake discovers a pack of American Spirit cigarettes on the ground and lights one up. He stares at the lit match and the viewer before extinguishing it and saying, "Welcome to the human race."