{{Plot}} The film begins in Hudson, Ohio, where Scotty "Scott" Thomas  is dumped by his girlfriend, Fiona  at his high school graduation. Later that evening, Scott and his best friend, Cooper Harris , attend a graduation party and learn that Fiona has been sleeping with Donny , the lead singer of a college band, and are treated to a performance of the film's main theme song "Scotty Doesn't Know", that crudely details the affair. Drunk and angry, Scott return home and receives an e-mail reply from his German pen pal, Mieke , whom he believes to be a guy thinking her name is pronounced as "Mike". Mieke feels sorry for all that has happened and wants to arrange a meeting in order to make Scott feel better. Thinking of a comment Cooper said earlier about the Internet being full of predatory homosexuals, Scott emails Mieke to stay away from him. However, Scott's younger brother, Bert  explains that "Mieke" in German is not "Mike," but actually similar to "Michelle" in English. Realizing his mistake and that he has feelings for Mieke, Scott attempts desperately to contact her again, only to find out that Mieke has unexpectedly blocked his address. Pushed by Cooper to search for Mieke, Scott resolves to travel to Europe with Cooper to fix the situation and apologize to Mieke face-to-face. Scott and Cooper travel as couriers to London, where they end up befriending the members of a Manchester United football hooligan firm, led by Mad Maynard  after accidentally stumbling upon their pub and escaping a fight by claiming to be members of a Manchester United fan club from Ohio. After a wild night of drinking, Scott and Cooper wake up on a double-decker bus on their way to Paris for a Manchester United game, where they eventually meet up with their fraternal twin friends, Jenny and Jamie , who are touring Europe together. Jenny and Jamie decide to accompany Scott and Cooper to Berlin to find Mieke, and plans to visit other parts of Europe together, since this will be the last summer the four of them will spend together before going off to college. Following a long train ride with a creepy Italian man  attempting to grope Jamie, the group ends up in the fictional French town of Crans Sur Mer, famous for its nude beach. However, they leave immediately after realizing that women go to another nearby nude beach because perverted men flock to the beach to either grope or stare at the females. In Amsterdam, Cooper heads to Club Vandersexxx, which is actually a brutal BDSM club where he is subjected to sadistic torture because he cannot pronounce the "safe word." Meanwhile, Scott and Jenny go to a café and eat what they believe to be hash brownies and proceed to "freak out," only to be told that they are normal brownies. While Jamie is at a camera store seeking to have his prized Leica M7 camera cleaned, the female shopkeeper takes him to the alley to engage in oral sex. While there, Jamie is robbed of his traveller's fanny pack by a mugger . With no choice but to hitchhike to Berlin, they manage to get a truck driver to pull over. However, he does not speak English, and Scott, saying that he speaks some German, crudely asks the driver if he can take them to Berlin. The driver mentions Berlin in his reply numerous times, but he is actually saying he is going nowhere near Berlin, as he is wanted there for stabbing a woman and assaulting a horse. The group ultimately end up in Bratislava, where they are horrified by the desolation of Eastern Europe in the aftermath of the Cold War. They talk to a Slovak man named Tibor , who loves 1980s American pop culture. Deciding to have some fun, the group goes to a nightclub owned by a man named Kristoff , whom Jenny met at the railway station in Paris earlier. Jenny is attracted to Kristoff, until she discovers that he is married and bisexual. Jenny then downs half a bottle of absinthe that the boys have been drinking. Jenny and Jamie, both drunk on absinthe, make out with each other and are horrified when they realize what they are doing. The next day, Tibor finally drives them to Berlin, where Mieke's father informs Scott and Cooper that his daughter has gone with a tour group for the summer and will only be reachable in Rome for a short time. In order to afford flight tickets to Rome to find Mieke, Jamie sells his precious Leica camera. In Rome, the four friends head to Vatican City, where Mieke will tour before she leaves. However, the group are unable to get inside the Vatican to follow Mieke, but in the end, they finally get inside the Vatican after Jamie manage to convince the Swiss Guards that he is a tour guide. Once inside the Vatican, Jamie is asked to replace one of the tour guides who called in sick. Meanwhile, Cooper unknowingly rings the bell of Saint Marco and sets a Papal mitre on fire. Throwing it onto the fireplace, it lights up in white smoke over the Vatican, making everyone realize that the old pope has died and that a new pope has been elected. Attempting to escape, Scott gets tangled in a golden curtain and ends up stumbles out on the balcony, where he is presumed to be the new pope. Spotting Mieke, Scott jumps down a banister to meet up with her. Although the Swiss Guards realize what is going on and attempt to stop Scott and Cooper, the football hooligans from London eventually shows up at the Vatican and rescue Scott and Cooper. Scott finally introduces himself to Mieke in person and confesses his love for her. After having passionate sex in a confessional, Mieke tells Scott to continue writing to her before she boards her boat. A man whom Jamie took on a tour of the Vatican turns out to be Arthur Frommer , author of the guidebook Jamie has memorized. Frommer hires Jamie to tour every museum and cathedral across Europe. Scott, Cooper, and Jenny finally board their flight back to Ohio. On the plane, Jenny entices Cooper to have sex with her in one of the plane's toilets, finally realizing his dream of "crazy European sex". The film ends when Scott moves to Oberlin College in the fall and is surprised when Mieke prematurely shows up at his room. Mieke says that, due to another misunderstanding about her name, she is his roommate, and Scott and Mieke embrace each other.