Orin Boyd  is a cop who works in Detroit's 21st precinct, and his attitude and rough means of enforcing the law always end up annoying the precinct captain, Frank Daniels . When a Michigan militant group try to kill the Vice President of the United States , Orin kills the militants. Even though Orin saved the Vice President's life, Frank does not like the way Orin did it, so Frank transfers Orin to the 15th precinct — Detroit's worst precinct. Orin's new captain, former internal affairs officer Annette Mulcahy , knows of his reputation, and she tells him that she will not tolerate it. Annette sends Orin to an anger management class where he meets Henry Wayne , the high-strung host of a local talk show called Detroit AM. Despite this measure, Orin does not change his ways of doing his job. It is not long before he comes across local drug dealer Latrell Walker  and his fast-talking sidekick T.K. Johnson  doing a shady deal with a man named Matt Montini . After a brief fight, Orin discovers that Montini has been working undercover trying to nail Walker and Orin messed it up, and that does not sit well with Montini's musclebound partner Useldinger . Not all of the cops of the 15th precinct give Orin a hard time. Sergeant Lewis Strutt  steps in to cool things down when Orin gets in a fight with Useldinger, and George Clark  is assigned to be Orin's partner. After Orin stumbles upon the theft of $5,000,000 worth of heroin from Piper Tech, a place where evidence is stored, Orin and George begin focusing their efforts on Latrell and T.K., and also Shaun Rollins , whom Latrell has been visiting at the local jail. Orin asks Henry to do some digging on Latrell's background. What Henry discovers is that Latrell is not a drug dealer. Latrell is a computer expert and billionaire whose real name is Leon Rollins — he is Shaun Rollins' brother. Orin confronts Leon, who explains that a group of corrupt cops were in danger of losing one of their drug dealers, so the corrupt cops planted heroin on Shaun, setting Shaun up to take the rap so they would not lose their dealer. Leon shows a videotape that shows that Strutt is the leader of the group of corrupt cops, who also include Montini and Useldinger, and it was Strutt and his gang who stole the heroin from Piper Tech. Leon and his friend Trish  have been videotaping some of the activities of Strutt's gang, hoping that it might help prove Shaun's innocence and get him out of jail. Orin meets with Annette at a parking lot and he gets in Annette's truck and tells Annette what is going on. However, Montini, Useldinger, and some other men show up and try to kill Orin and Annette. Annette screeches out of the parking lot with Orin still in her truck. Orin and Annette are chased, and Annette is killed when her truck slams into the back of a bigger vehicle, sending her into her truck's windshield. Orin calls Frank and tells him that Strutt will be having a meeting at a warehouse in about an hour, to sell the heroin that was stolen from Piper Tech. Strutt plans to try to sell it to Leon and T. K., not knowing that Leon is working against him. Frank promises that he will be there with some backup. Orin goes to George's house and tells George what is going on. George agrees to help Orin. At midnight in the warehouse, Strutt is trying to sell the heroin to Leon when he realizes who Leon is and why Leon is working against him. Orin and Frank show up, and Strutt tells Frank to keep Orin under control. Frank aims a gun at Orin. Orin realizes that it is Frank who is behind everything. Frank complains that his $40,000-a-year salary is not enough money for putting his life on the line every day. That is why Frank has been heading the drug running operation, as a way to make a lot of money. Just as Frank is about to shoot Orin, George blows open the door and barges in with backup, including police chief Hinges . Gunfire erupts, and T. K. gets shot in the leg. Useldinger shoots Orin when he sneaks behind him, and as he is about to shoot him again, George shoots Useldinger dead. Orin is fine because he was wearing a bulletproof vest. Chief Hinges kills Frank by shooting him 4 times with a shotgun, the last bullet hitting his neck; Hinges yells out "You're fired". Orin gets into a fight against Strutt, and Leon gets into a fight against Montini. After a swordfight, Strutt grabs a case full of money and runs up to the roof, where a helicopter is waiting for him, and there is a rope ladder hanging from the helicopter. Strutt starts climbing up the ladder, and Orin grabs the ladder too. Montini gets the upper hand in his fight with Leon after he damages Leon's vision with cement powder. However, Leon manages to stab Montini in the leg with a piece of broken glass. As the helicopter ladder is dragging Orin across the roof while Strutt is hanging on to the ladder, Orin snags the ladder on one of the metal pipes that's sticking up out of the roof. This makes the ladder snap off of the helicopter with Strutt still on the ladder. Strutt and the ladder fall to the roof, and Strutt is killed when he lands on a metal pipe that impales from his back and causes the exit wound to come through his chest. Leon beats Montini up, and when Montini tries to push Leon toward a metal spike that's sticking out of the wall, Leon grabs Montini, and forces Montini to the wall. Montini dies when the spike goes through his throat and causes an exit wound through the back of his neck. At dawn, Leon gives Hinges a videotape that has a lot of the corruption on it, hoping that the tape will help prove Shaun's innocence. Hinges thinks the courts will not care about the tape, so Hinges had Shaun released from county about an hour before. Orin decides to stay with the 15th precinct with George as his partner, and T. K. becomes Henry's co-host.