FBI Special Agent Sean Archer  has a personal vendetta against civil freelance terrorist Castor Troy  after Castor killed Archer's son Michael while trying to assassinate Archer. Archer learns of Castor's brother, Pollux , making arrangements for a private jet, and sets a trap to capture both Castor and Pollux. During the operation, Castor gloats about a bomb he has planted somewhere in Los Angeles, but he is knocked into a coma during the firefight. Though Castor and Pollux are captured, and the plans for the bomb found in Pollux's suitcase, Archer has no clue to its location. He agrees to undergo an experimental face transplant surgery, giving him the appearance of Castor; this process is only known to his immediate supervisors and Dr. Walsh who performs the surgery. Archer is taken to an offshore high security prison and meets with Pollux, eventually gaining his confidence to learn the bomb's location. During this, Castor wakes from his coma and discovers the face transplant and Archer's plan. He contacts his agents who force Dr. Walsh to give him Archer's face, and then kill him and Archer's superiors. Just as Archer contacts the police to pass along the information, Castor arrives at the prison and taunts Archer, revealing he will now take over his life, including Archer's wife Eve  and teenage daughter Jamie . As Castor frees Pollux "locates" his bomb and deactivates it, earning praise from the FBI, Archer escapes from the prison during a riot that left said prison completely destroyed and various guards slaughtered, and soon locates Castor's old hideout. There, he meets several of Castor's gang, including Castor's ex-girlfriend Sasha Hassler  and her son Adam, who resembles Michael at that age. Though initially believing that Adam should be sent to child services, Archer finds Sasha to be a caring mother trying to raise her son in rough conditions. When Castor  learns of the prison break, he suspects that Archer will connect with his gang, and leads an FBI raid of his headquarters. During the battle, many of Castor's gang are killed, while Archer kills Pollux, infuriating Castor. Castor is berated by FBI Assistant Director in Charge, Victor Lazarro, but in his anger, Castor kills him, feigning that Lazarro suffered a heart attack; Castor is promoted to acting Director in Charge, making him virtually untouchable. Meanwhile, Archer returns to his home and convinces Eve, a doctor herself, that he is Archer, which she later confirms via blood tests; she helps to tend to his wounds, and explains that Castor will be at Lazarro's funeral the next day. Archer waits to confront Castor at the funeral, but finds that Castor has taken Eve as a hostage. A gunfight ensues between Castor, Archer, and Castor's gang under Archer's orders. Sasha helps to rescue Eve, but takes a bullet in protecting Archer; he promises to look after Adam as she dies. Castor attempts to take Jamie hostage, but she retaliates by using a self-defense tactic that Castor had taught her. Castor tries to escape using a nearby speedboat, followed closely by Archer. The two boats crash ashore, and the two men turn to melee. Castor, finding himself being overpowered, damages his face as to make it unusable by Archer, but Archer kills him using a spear gun. As the FBI arrive, Eve is able to explain Archer's true identity. The face transplant surgery is reversed, and the film ends with Archer helping to welcome Adam into his family, fulfilling a promise to Sasha.