Sam Simms  is a Secret Service agent assigned by his superior Wilkes  to protect President Paul Davenport's  rebellious 13-year-old son Luke Davenport  after Luke's behavior causes another agent Woods  to be replaced for mistreating Luke in front of media cameras. Woods is later fired for failing his physical. Simms sees this assignment as undesirable, but a possible stepping stone to protecting the President. He fails to connect with the boy at first, and Luke continues to misbehave, including an incident where he releases his pet snake Poison into a White House party. After seeing Luke get beat up by the school bully Rob , Simms feels sorry for him - he had felt alone as a teenager, too  - and they become friends. Simms, a former boxing champion, agrees to sneak Luke out against the wishes of the chief of security Morton  and teach him how to fight. Meanwhile, Luke agonizes over asking the cutest girl, Katie, to the school dance, which he finally does successfully with Simms's help. On the night of the dance, a backpack is left outside of the White House and Luke is not allowed to go due to the security risk, even though his parents gave him permission. Simms pities him and, breaking the rules again, he takes him to the dance. There, Rob tries to attack Luke again while Simms is distracted, but this time Luke puts him down. After that, Secret Service agents bust the school dance and retrieve Luke. Simms is suspended and not allowed to speak with Luke, who is crushed that his friend has apparently 'abandoned' him. Luke, [grounded] and with a homing device attached to him, receives advice from an online friend, Mongoose12, on how to escape the White House and meet him at a local mall. Luke agrees, but it is revealed that Mongoose12 was in fact former agent Woods, who kidnaps him. When Luke goes missing, Simms is given another chance to protect him, and with the help of a friend he quickly tracks Luke to the mall. In a standoff, Woods says he was planning on returning Luke to the President so he could be a hero and get his job back, but now he wants to kill him instead. He blames Luke for making him lose his job, and even his wife. As other agents arrive, Simms takes a bullet in the arm that was intended for Luke and Woods is subdued by other arriving Secret Service agents. In the final scene of the film, Simms is offered Presidential duty which he declines in order to stay with Luke's biology teacher. Luke is relieved of his last punishment, and while playing street hockey with friends, hits the puck in Simms' forehead, ensuing a chase-off between Simms and Luke. This film would also turn out to be the final on screen appearance for Sonny Bono, who, at the time of the film's release, was serving in the U.S. House of Representatives. Sonny plays himself as a Congressman coming to the White House to visit the President. Simms bumps into him  outside the Oval Office and fawns over him.