The central story is of a self-serving trapeze artist named Cleopatra , who seduces and eventually marries a sideshow midget, Hans , after learning of his large inheritance. At their wedding reception, the other "freaks" resolve that they will accept Cleopatra in spite of her being a "normal" outsider, and hold an initiation ceremony, wherein they pass a massive goblet of wine around the table while chanting, "We accept her! We accept her! One of us! One of us! Gooble-gobble, gooble-gobble!" The ceremony frightens the drunken Cleopatra, who accidentally reveals that she has been having an affair with Hercules , the strong man; she mocks the freaks, tosses the wine in their faces, and drives them away. Despite being humiliated, Hans remains with Cleopatra. Shortly thereafter, Hans is taken ill. Cleopatra has poisoned his wine at the wedding, and continues slipping poison into Hans' medicine so that she can inherit his money and run away with Hercules. Venus , another circus performer, overhears Cleopatra and Hercules discussing the murder plot and tells Hans and the other freaks. In the film's climax, the freaks attack Cleopatra and Hercules with guns, knives, and various sharp-edged weapons, hideously mutilating them during a bad storm. Though Hercules is never seen again, the original ending of the film had the freaks castrating him; the audience sees him later singing in falsetto. The film concludes with a revelation of Cleopatra's fate; she has become a grotesque, squawking "human duck". The flesh of her hands has been melted and deformed to look like duck feet and her lower half has been permanently tarred and feathered. In an ending MGM threw in later for a "happier ending", Hans is living a millionaire's life in a huge house. Venus and her clown boyfriend Phroso  come with Frieda to visit, and Frieda comforts Hans when he begins to cry. ===Additional features=== Spliced throughout the main narrative are a variety of "slice of life" segments detailing the lives of the sideshow performers. *The bearded woman, who loves the human skeleton, gives birth to their daughter. *Violet, a conjoined twin whose sister Daisy is married to one of the circus clowns, herself becomes engaged to the owner of the circus. Daisy appears to react with romantic arousal when Violet is kissed by her suitor, and a closed-eyed Violet knows when Daisy's shoulder has been touched, implying that each sister can experience the other's physical sensations. ** Daisy and Violet Hilton were real-life conjoined twins. *The Human Torso , in the middle of a conversation, lights his own cigarette, using only his tongue. In the original scene, he also rolls the cigarette.