In South Central Los Angeles, California, Craig Jones  awakens on Friday morning unemployed. Although claiming innocence, the day before he was fired from his UPS job while attempting to collect his wages, as he was allegedly caught on camera stealing boxes. Meanwhile he must put up with his father, Willie Jones, who says Craig must either find a job or risk being thrown out of the house if he can't cover his end of the rent. Adding to his woes, Craig has been eyeing pretty neighbor Debbie, but his insanely jealous  girlfriend Joi is proving to be a formidable obstacle. Throughout the day, friends and local neighborhood characters pass through, such as the harmless but always-scheming crackhead/petty thief Ezail; the unkempt, perpetual crackhead/moocher Felisha, who is also Debbie's sister; lascivious Pastor Clever, who has a brief fling with sultry parishioner Mrs. Parker before being unexpectedly interrupted by her infuriated, diminutive dwarf husband; package delivery driver Red, whose stolen bicycle and chain necklace, and black eye are courtesy of the hulking neighborhood bully Deebo; and China, friend of Craig's sister Dana. The film's subplot focuses on Smokey, who has been smoking a brokered consignment of "indo", which he was supposed to be selling for drug dealer Big Worm. In an attempt to explain his obvious lack of revenue, Smokey inadvertently incriminates Craig, subjecting both to Big Worm's wrath. Big Worm has had enough of Smokey "playing with his emotions" and warns him to collect the $200 dollars worth of drugs no later than 10:00 that evening, or he and Craig will be killed. Smokey is able to recover some of the money by selling pot to Hector, whom he hates for making him the brunt of prank involving smoking a joint laced with angel dust that left Smokey running down the street at night in his underwear while in a drug-induced frenzy. Unfortunately further attempts to borrow money from Joi, Debbie  and Craig's sister, Dana, prove unsuccessful. Willie eventually learns of Craig's plight, as well as the fact that Craig is carrying a gun around for protection, and furiously scolds him for keeping bad company and allowing himself to be corrupted by street life. Later on, the two plan how they are going to get Big Worm's money. By then, Rita, a girl Debbie had hooked Smokey up with earlier on the phone, arrives. Smokey approaches her car with confidence until he finds out that she lied about her image: instead of resembling Janet Jackson , she is obese and practically bald . Smokey heads to Debbie's house to complain about the date and notices Red's bike, which has been stolen by Deebo, on the lawn. He sneaks into a bedroom and finds Deebo asleep with Felisha beside him. He tries to steal the rest of the money that he and Deebo lifted from robbing Craig's neighbor Stanley earlier, but quickly leaves without the money as Deebo wakes up due to Ezail making noise as he tried to sneak inside the bedroom. Smokey goes back to Craig's house to tell him about the available money. Craig agrees to return to Debbie and Felisha's house to steal it from Deebo, but before they could leave Craig's house, they see Deebo riding by on Red's bike. Looking down the block, the two notice a black car driving slowly and they hide behind a tree, suspecting a possible drive-by shooting will occur. They settle back into Craig's room for about an hour, trying to get in touch with Big Worm. They decide to go back outside to prove they are not scared. Once outside, they notice a black van parked outside in the middle of the street with the headlights off. The two flee as the men in the van start shooting at them with submachine guns, ultimately landing in the back of a pick up truck where they remain safe. Everyone in the neighborhood emerges from their homes upon hearing the gunshots. Debbie confronts Deebo for physically assaulting Felisha. Deebo tells her that Felisha was trying to steal money from his pants, falsely accusing her for Smokey's earlier attempted theft, and warns her to go home. She continues to lambaste Deebo until he slaps her in the face. At this moment, Craig and Smokey arrive on the scene and Craig immediately steps in to defend Debbie. He stands up to Deebo and threatens him with the gun that he acquired earlier. but is ultimately convinced by Willie to hand the gun over to him. Craig and Deebo then engage in a bare-knuckle brawl. After a brutal fight, Craig emerges as the victor. Debbie tends to Craig, while Smokey steals the money he was after from the unconscious Deebo, Red retrieves his chain and bicycle , and Ezail steals Deebo's shoes. In the end, Craig has seemingly overcome all of the day's tribulations, save for finding employment. He and Debbie seem to hook up in the end, leading Craig to break up with Joi over the phone. Later, Smokey has a talk with Big Worm over the phone stating how he did not appreciate the sending of his crew to shoot at him and Craig. Big Worm explains that he has had to warn Smokey too many times about his money and that it was all about the principle of handling business. Smokey says he has the $200 that he owes to Big Worm and that Big Worm should deal weed himself next time, as he is going to rehab. After hanging up, Smokey looks up, lights up a joint and ends the film by shouting at the audience, "I was just bullshittin'! And you know this, man!"