The film begins in 1958. Two counselors at Camp Crystal Lake, Barry  and Claudette , are murdered by an unseen assailant after they sneak away to a cabin to have sex. As the film jumps to present day Friday, June 13, the camp is being re-opened by Steve Christy . Annie , one of the teens who will be a counselor at the camp, is hitchhiking to Crystal Lake and is given a lift by a friendly truck driver, Enos , after asking for directions at a local diner. She is warned by the town crazy Ralph  that the camp is cursed and is also warned by Enos who tells her about the murders of 1958, among other strange happenings. After being driven part of the distance to the camp, Annie dismisses the warnings when she leaves and continues to Crystal Lake, later being picked up by an unseen driver in a Jeep. As the driver speeds past the entrance to the camp, Annie becomes concerned and leaps from the moving vehicle when the driver fails to stop, fleeing into the woods. The unseen driver chases her into the woods and slits her throat with a hunting knife. Meanwhile, several other counselors have been hired to help Steve with the camp, including Alice , Bill , Marcie, Jack , Brenda  and Ned . The counselors begin refurbishing and renovating the camp as Steve heads off to get supplies in town. Ned follows a figure wearing a black rain slicker he sees disappearing into an old cabin and is never seen alive again. Meanwhile, a thunderstorm forces Jack and Marcie to take refuge in a bunkhouse and have sex, unaware that Ned's corpse  rests on the upper bunk. Marcie then leaves for the bathroom, while Jack stays and smokes a marijuana joint. The unseen figure shoves an arrow through his throat from under the bed, then murders Marcie in the bathroom with a hatchet to her head. Meanwhile, Steve's Jeep gets stuck in mud and he is escorted back to camp by a police officer. Upon arrival at the camp, Steve is murdered by the same attacker, although Steve appears to know the person. After playing strip Monopoly, Brenda is murdered while walking back to her cabin after hearing a child-like voice calling "Help me!" from the woods. Hearing her scream, Bill and Alice go to investigate but only find a bloody axe in Brenda's bed. After discovering the phone lines have been cut and Ned's truck won't start, Bill leaves to check the generator. Afterwards, Alice becomes worried when Bill does not return; while looking for him, she finds his corpse pinned to a door with arrows and flees back to her cabin. After barricading herself in the cabin, Brenda's roped corpse is hurled through the window, forcing Alice to run back outside only to meet a middle-aged woman who identified herself as Mrs. Voorhees . As Alice begins to tell Mrs. Voorhees about the murders, Mrs. Voorhees tells Alice about her son Jason who had drowned in the lake at the camp years before. Blaming camp counselors who were not watching her son, Mrs. Voorhees charges at Alice with a hunting knife, and Alice realizes that Mrs. Voorhees is the killer. A lengthy chase ensues in which Alice appears to subdue Mrs. Voorhees several times and finds the dead bodies of Steve and Annie in the process. Facing off near the shore of the lake, Alice manages to finally defeat Mrs. Voorhees, decapitating her with a machete. With Mrs. Voorhees dead, Alice climbs in a canoe and floats onto the lake. The next morning, Alice wakes to find police officers on the shore. However, as Alice continues to float in the canoe, the decayed corpse of Jason , Mrs. Voorhees's son, leaps up from the surface and pulls Alice underwater. Suddenly, Alice awakes in the hospital, the previous scene with Jason having been a nightmare. Alice asks about Jason, but when the officer explains that no child was found at the camp, Alice replies, "Then he's still there." as the last scene shows the lake in peace