The screenplay of Gandhi is available as a published book.{{cite book}}{{cite book}} The film opens with a statement from the filmmakers explaining their approach to the problem of filming Gandhi's complex life story: {{cquote2}} The film begins with Gandhi's assassination on 30 January 1948,{{rp}} and his funeral.{{rp}} After an evening prayer, an elderly Gandhi is helped out for his evening walk to meet a large number of greeters and admirers. One of these visitors—Nathuram Godse—shoots him point blank in the chest. Gandhi exclaims, "Oh, God!" , and then falls dead. The film then cuts to a huge procession at his funeral, which is attended by dignitaries from around the world. The early life of Gandhi is not depicted in the film. Instead, the story flashes back 55 years to a life-changing event: in 1893, the 24-year-old Gandhi is thrown off a South African train for being an Indian sitting in a first-class compartment despite having a ticket.pp. 21-24, Briley . Realizing the laws are biased against Indians, he then decides to start a non-violent protest campaign for the rights of all Indians in South Africa. After numerous arrests and unwelcome international attention, the government finally relents by recognizing some rights for Indians.p. 54 of Briley  represents Gandhi's final victory in South Africa by depicting General Smuts as telling Gandhi, "a Royal Commission to 'investigate' the new legislation.... I think I could guarantee they would recommend the Act be repealed.... You yourself are free from this moment.". After this victory, Gandhi is invited back to India, where he is now considered something of a national hero. He is urged to take up the fight for India's independence  from the British Empire. Gandhi agrees, and mounts a non-violent non-cooperation campaign of unprecedented scale, coordinating millions of Indians nationwide. There are some setbacks, such as violence against the protesters and Gandhi's occasional imprisonment. The Jallianwala Bagh massacre is also depicted in the film. Nevertheless, the campaign generates great attention, and Britain faces intense public pressure. After World War IIWorld War II is alluded to in three scenes in the movie. Briley  first presents Gandhi, soon after his return from London in the early 1930, as saying "They are preparing for war. I will not support it, but I do not intend to take advantage of their danger" . Second, after war is underway (as indicated by a newspaper headline, Gandhi is prevented by the British from speaking when he says he will "speak against war" ; Kasturba then tells the British "If you take my husband, I intend to speak in his place" , although she too is prevented from speaking. Third, Margaret Bourke-White and Gandhi discuss whether nonviolence could be effective against Hitler . Britain finally grants Indian independence.The British commitment to support Indian independence is indicated in the first scene set after WWII, in which Mountbatten arrives at Delhi Airport and then, in press conference, announces that "We have come to crown victory with friendship - to assist at the birth of an independent India and to welcome her as an equal member in the British Commonwealth of Nations... I am here to see that I am the last British Viceroy" . Indians celebrate this victory, but their troubles are far from over. Religious tensions between Hindus and Muslims erupt into nation-wide violence. Gandhi declares a hunger strike, saying he will not eat until the fighting stops.In Briely , Gandhi mentions he is on a "fast" , and later says that he wants "That the fighting will stop - that you make me believe it will never start again" . The fighting does stop eventually, but the country is divided by religion. It is decided that the northwest area of India, and eastern part of India , both places where Muslims are in the majority, will become a new country called Pakistan. It is hoped that by encouraging the Muslims to live in a separate country, violence will abate. Gandhi is opposed to the idea, and is even willing to allow Muhammad Ali Jinnah to become the first prime minister of India,Briley , Gandhi to Jinnah: "I am asking Panditji to stand down. I want you to be the first Prime Minister of India" . but the Partition of India is carried out nevertheless. Gandhi spends his last days trying to bring about peace between both nations. He thereby angers many dissidents on both sides, one of whom assassinates him in a scene at the end of the film that recalls the opening.p. 179, Briley . As Godse shoots Gandhi, the film fades to black and Gandhi is heard in a voiceover, saying "Oh God". The audience then sees Gandhi's cremation; the film ending with a scene of Gandhi's ashes being scattered on the holy Ganga.p. 180, Briley ; in the movie/screenplay, the river is not identified. As this happens, we hear Gandhi in another voiceover:Here, the movie voiceover  departs from Briley's  published screenplay, which reads: "There have been tyrants and murderers - and for a time they can seem invincible. But in the end they always fall. Think of it - always... When you are in doubt that that is God's way, the way the world is meant to be... think of that."  {{cquote}} As the list of actors is seen at the end, the hymn "Vaishnava Janato" is heard.