In 1846, in Lower Manhattan's Five Points, a territorial war between the "Natives"  and recently arrived Irish Catholic immigrants, is coming to a head in Paradise Square. The Natives are led by "Bill the Butcher" Cutting , a Protestant nativist. The leader of the Irish gang, the Dead Rabbits, is known as "Priest" Vallon . The gangs meet in a bloody battle, concluding when Bill kills Vallon, which Vallon's son Amsterdam  witnesses. Cutting declares the Dead Rabbits outlawed and orders Vallon's body be buried with honor. Amsterdam seizes the knife used to kill his father, races off, and buries it. He is found and taken to the orphanage at Hellgate. In September 1862, Amsterdam  returns to New York. Arriving in Five Points, he reunites with an old friend, Johnny Sirocco , who introduces Amsterdam to Bill the Butcher. Amsterdam finds many of his father's old loyalists are now under Bill's control, including Happy Jack Mulraney , a corrupt city constable, and McGloin , now one of Bill's lieutenants. Amsterdam works his way into Bill's inner circle, and learns that each year, on the anniversary of the Five Points battle , Bill leads the city in saluting the victory over the Dead Rabbits. He makes plans to kill Bill during this ceremony, in order to exact public revenge. Amsterdam meets Jenny Everdeane , a very successful and discreet pickpocket and grifter, to whom he is attracted. His interest is dampened when he discovers she was once Bill's ward and still enjoys Bill's affections. Amsterdam becomes involved in the semi-criminal empire of Boss Tweed , the leader of Tammany Hall. During a performance of Uncle Tom's Cabin, Amsterdam thwarts an assassination attempt that leaves Bill wounded. Amsterdam realizes he acted more out of honest devotion to Bill than from his own plan of revenge. Both retire to a brothel, where Jenny nurses Bill. Amsterdam confronts Jenny over Bill, and they have an argument that dissolves into lovemaking. Late that night, Amsterdam wakes to find Bill sitting by his bed in a rocking chair, draped in a tattered American flag. Bill says "Priest" Vallon was the last enemy he ever fought who was worthy of real respect, and "Priest" once beat Bill soundly and then let him live in shame rather than kill him. Bill credits the incident with giving him strength of will and character to return and fight for his own authority. Bill admits he has come to look upon Amsterdam as the son he never had. The evening of the ceremony arrives. Johnny reveals Amsterdam's identity and his plot to kill Bill. During a knife-throwing act involving Jenny, Bill baits Amsterdam when he throws the knife to leave a superficial cut on her throat. Amsterdam throws a knife at Bill, which Bill deflects, and counters with a knife throw of his own, hitting Amsterdam in the abdomen. Bill then repeatedly beats him as the crowd cheers. Bill proclaims he will let Amsterdam live as "[a] freak, worthy of Barnum's museum of wonders". Afterwards, in hiding, Jenny nurses Amsterdam back to health, and implores him to leave New York. They are visited by "Monk" McGinn , who was a mercenary for Vallon in the battle of the Five Points. He gives Amsterdam a straight razor that belonged to Vallon. Amsterdam places a dead rabbit on a fence in Paradise Square. The rabbit finds its way to Bill, who sends Happy Jack to find out who sent the message. Amsterdam ambushes Jack in the catacombs, strangles him, and hangs his body in Paradise Square. In retaliation, Bill has Johnny beaten nearly to death and run through with an iron pike. When McGloin goes to pray at a Catholic church, and sees Amsterdam's friend, Jimmy Spoils , he objects to letting a "nigger" in the church. Amsterdam and his friends respond by beating McGloin. The Nativists march to the Catholic Church, where the Irish stand on the steps in defense. Bill promises to return when they are ready. "Boss" Tweed approaches Amsterdam with a plan to defeat Bill: Tweed will back the candidacy of "Monk" McGinn for sheriff in return for the Irish vote. On election day, Bill and Amsterdam force people to the polls, some of them several times, with the result that "Monk" wins by more votes than there are voters. Bill confronts "Monk", who does not respond to Bill's challenge, suggesting they discuss the matter democratically. Bill then throws a meat cleaver into "Monk's" back and kills him with his own shillelagh. During "Monk's" funeral, Amsterdam issues a traditional challenge to fight, which Bill accepts. The New York City draft riots break out, and many upper-class citizens and African-Americans are attacked by the rioters. Union soldiers enter the city to put down the riots. As the gangs meet, they are hit by shells from naval ships in the harbor firing directly into Paradise Square. Many are killed, and an enormous cloud of dust and debris covers the area. Union soldiers then fire into the square, killing numerous people, including McGloin. Amsterdam and Bill exchange blows in the haze, then are thrown to the ground by another shell blast. When the smoke clears, Bill discovers he has been hit by a piece of shrapnel. He declares, "Thank God, I die a true American.". Amsterdam stabs him, and Bill dies with his hand locked in Amsterdam's. Bill is buried in Brooklyn, in view of the smoke-filled Manhattan skyline, next to the grave of "Priest" Vallon. Amsterdam narrates New York would be rebuilt, but they are no longer remembered, as if "we were never here". The scene then shifts, as modern New York City is built, from the Brooklyn Bridge to the Empire State Building to the World Trade Center, and the graves of Bill and "Priest" gradually deteriorate.