Georgina  is a 22-year-old Londoner who has considerable musical talent, is well educated, and has an engaging if shameless manner. On the other hand, she believes herself to be plain, dresses haphazardly, and is incredibly naïve on the subjects of love and flirtation; she has never had a boyfriend. She has an inventive imagination and loves children. Her parents are the live-in employees of successful businessman James Leamington . Leamington is 49 and has a loveless, childless marriage with Ellen . He has watched with affection as "Georgy" grew up, and has treated her as if he were her second father.  As Georgy has become a young woman, however, it is apparent that Leamington's feelings for her have become more than fatherly. James offers Georgy a legal contract, proposing to supply her with the luxuries of life in return for her becoming his mistress. He also promises to provide for any "fruit of the union". Georgy sidesteps his proposal by never giving him a direct response; Leamington's business-like language and manner  leave her cold. Georgy's flatmate is her so-called best friend, the beautiful Meredith , who works as a violinist in an orchestra, but is otherwise a shallow woman who lives for her own hedonistic pleasures. She treats the meekly compliant Georgy like an unpaid servant. When Meredith discovers that she is pregnant by her boyfriend Jos Jones , they get married. She did not bother to tell him she had had two abortions before during their relationship. Jos moves in with the two young women. He becomes disillusioned with Meredith and begins to find himself attracted to Georgy . Jos and Georgy begin a secret affair, after Jos admits to seeing Meredith as their lodger and loving Georgy. Meredith gives birth to a daughter, whom they name Sara. Since she has no interest in the baby, and is tired of Jos, she announces that she plans to put the child up for adoption and divorce her husband. Georgy and Jos set up home together in the flat, caring for the baby and living as a married couple. It soon becomes clear that Georgy cares more for the baby than having an adult relationship with Jos, though he had already confessed to being pleased he had a daughter, believing boys need more from their fathers. The relationship ends when Jos realises he is of no real importance to Georgy and has tired of a father's responsibilities. Now that Georgy is the sole caregiver of a baby to whom she has no blood ties, Social Services wish to remove baby Sara from her care. In the meantime, Leamington's wife has died.  Leamington, who was unable to express his true feelings while his wife lived, now finds himself free to express his love for Georgy and proposes marriage. Georgy accepts because this will allow her to keep Sara. The two marry despite the difference in their backgrounds and ages. Exultant, joyful singing  proclaims that all is well now: "who needs a perfect lover when you're a mother at heart...better try to tell yourself that you've got your way...now you've got a future planned for you...at least he's a millionaire...you're rich, Georgy Girl." In the car as they leave the wedding, neither bride nor groom says a word. Georgy does not look at or pay attention to her new husband, focusing only on Sara.