In Getting any? Minoru Iizuka, also known as "Dankan" , portrays Asao, a naive and goofy man who lives with his grandfather in Saitama Prefecture. Even though Asao is 35 years old, he is very inexperienced with girls, but he absolutely wants to have sex. One day as he watches an erotic TV film, he realizes that all he needs to get girls and sex is a fancy car, so he runs to the closest car dealer. In the TV film, the male character had a Porsche 911 Cabriolet, so Asao aims for a luxury import car dealer. To the seller asking what kind of cars he is looking for, Asao naively answers that he wants "a car for having sex". After trying a cabriolet, with the assistance of a very helpful and somewhat helpless hostess, Asao confesses he is strapped. All he can afford is a used domestic budget-car, so he is forced to buy a Honda Today, a modest K-car which is very cheap compared to the Mercedes-Benz, Rolls Royce, Aston Martin and Ferrari displayed in the show room.  Then, he quickly restages the scene he has seen in the TV film, with the help of a female mannequin, before aiming for street girls. Quickly, Asao realizes that male-female social relations are not as simple as in porn, and that real life girls are not as naive as in fictional works. After several humiliating and unsuccessful tries, Asao comes to the conclusion that roadsters are more efficient. Such cars are expensive but Asao is without money, so he asks his grandfather to help him. After cashing in his grandfather's liver and kidneys, he returns to the car dealer. The seller convinces him to buy an Austin Healey Sprite MkI, a classic British roadster, but once he learns how much money Asao really has, he changes his mind and sells him a Mazda Eunos Roadster , a popular Japanese roadster, claiming it is the same car. When Asao insists, the seller claims the '50s Austin-Healey was old-fashioned and the Eunos is a better model for cruising. The Eunos is driven a few meters and starts falling apart. Asao complains to the seller, but the latter is a con-man and refuses to talk with him any more, so Asao picks up the fallen pieces and attaches them to the back of his car. The young man tries his luck anyway with girls on the street, but does not succeed, so he finally sells his wrecked car to a local salvage company. As he walks home, he finds an apparently abandoned, parked, Mazda RX-7 Series 5 Turbo , and he decides to steal it. Asao drives a few miles when he encounters a young woman walking along the road and decides to talk to her, as shown in the erotic film, but the sports car does not brake anymore and he runs over the girl, and crashes the car into a billboard. He is lucky enough to not get hurt and he ditches the coupé.  Asao imagines stewardesses are naked and offer "on-board sex service" to first class 747 customers, so he decides to travel by plane. Since he does not have any money, he will do an armed bank robbery, but first he needs a weapon, so he heads to Kawaguchi City  where he will be able to make his own revolver in the local iron foundry. Eventually, he has many adventures such as joining the yakuza, becoming Zatoichi, becoming invisible, and getting transformed into a giant fly-man a la the film The Fly. The movie ends with his capture after diving into a large reservoir of feces. After the credits, there is a scene where Asao jumps around Tokyo as the fly-man before landing/getting impaled on Tokyo Tower.