The story takes place involving three different people who all work together in the same supermarket over the 24 hour period leading up to Christmas. Ronna  is broke and about to be evicted from her apartment. Despite having worked for 14 hours, she agrees to take her British co-worker Simon's  shift. While working, she's approached by two men, Adam  and Zack , who ask if she can come up with 20 hits of ecstasy, which they were hoping to buy from Simon. Realizing she can make some money from the deal, she goes to Simon's dealer Todd Gaines . Because she doesn't have enough money, Ronna has to leave her friend and co-worker Claire  with Todd until she makes her deal. Once she tries to make the deal, she grows suspicious when Burke , a person she never met before and who is with Adam and Zack, presses her for the drugs. In a panic, she flushes the drugs down the toilet and manages to get out. Ronna then swaps the pills she flushed with aspirin pills she steals with the help of Mannie , Ronna and Claire's friend , who had swallowed two of the pills without knowing their strength. Ronna hands off the pills to Todd and she, Claire and Mannie make their way to a rave party. Todd soon realizes that he's been given fake pills and goes after Ronna. Mannie sees Todd coming and Ronna hides Mannie when he starts to become sick. In the parking lot of the party Todd confronts Ronna, but before he can shoot her a car runs her over and dumps her off the side of a small cliff, leaving her fate unknown. The story then flashes back to Simon, who is going to Las Vegas with his three friends Marcus , Tiny , and Singh . Singh and Tiny get food poisoning from shrimp, leaving Simon and Marcus to their own devices. Simon crashes a wedding and has sex with two of the bridesmaids before their room accidentally catches fire. Marcus and Simon leave the hotel, getting into the car of someone who thought Marcus was a parking attendant. In the car, Simon finds a 9mm gun and holds on to it. Marcus and Simon go to The Crazy Horse, a strip club, where Simon first accidentally orders a lap dance , then enrages the bouncer Victor Jr.  when he grabs one of the strippers. Simon shoots Victor Jr. in the arm and he and Marcus flee. Knowing that they don't have much time, Marcus and Simon make their way back to the hotel  and with Singh and Tiny barely make their escape from the bouncer and the bouncer's father, Victor Sr. , the owner of the club. However, Simon forgot that he left Todd's credit card at the club, which Victor Sr. uses to track down where Todd lives. The story flashes back a third time, this time focusing on Adam and Zack. They are actors in a daytime soap opera, and are secretly gay and in a relationship. Because of a small drug deal they got caught in, they agree to work for Burke, a police detective. Adam and Zack are fitted with wires. Finding out that Simon, their usual dealer, isn't there, they improvise and convince Ronna to come up with the drugs. When Ronna shows up, Adam whispers "Go" into Ronna's ear, which is when she decides to go to the bathroom to flush the pills away. After the unsucessful bust, Burke invites Adam and Zack to a Christmas dinner his wife is making. At Burke's house, Adam and Zack observe strange behavior from Burke  and Burke's wife Irene  . Burke then make a pitch for his company, an Amway-type company . Adam and Zack then leave and when they start talking about each of them cheating on the other with the same person, Jimmy, they both decide to confront Jimmy who is at the rave party. Having cut off Jimmy's hair, the two leave and accidentally run over Ronna, speeding off when they see Todd's gun. In a gas station, the two realize they are still wearing their wire. Fearing that they may be found out for running a woman over, they drive back and eventually find Ronna still alive. They prop her up on a car and set the car alarm off, watching from a distance as other party-goers call for an ambulance. Claire goes to a restaurant where she hoped to meet up with Mannie and Ronna and sees Todd instead. Claire starts talking to Todd and the two soon go back to Todd's apartment building. While making out on the stairs, they are confronted by Victor Jr. and Sr.. Todd offers Simon's address, but Simon walks in just then, having hoped to hide out for a few days. As a form of 'justice', Victor Sr. orders his son to shoot Simon in the arm. Disgusted, Claire walks out . Ronna wakes up in the hospital and hobbles back to the supermarket, where Claire is also working. Realizing she left Mannie behind, Ronna and Claire make their way back to the parking lot of the rave party where they find a pale and shaken Mannie. The three of them go to Ronna's car, with Ronna musing that she has at least enough money to pay her rent, and Mannie asking what they'll be doing for New Year's.