In 1965, Airman Second Class Adrian Cronauer  arrives in Saigon from Crete to work as a DJ for Armed Forces Radio Service. Cronauer is greeted by PFC Edward Montesquieu Garlick . Cronauer's irreverence contrasts sharply with many staff members and soon rouses the ire of two of his superiors, Second Lieutenant Steven Hauk  and Sergeant Major Dickerson . Hauk adheres to strict Army guidelines in terms of humor and music programming, while Dickerson is annoyed by Cronauer's behavior in general. However, Brigadier General Taylor  and the other DJs quickly grow to like the new man and his brand of comedy. Cronauer's show consists of unpredictable humor segments mixed with news updates  and rock and roll records that are frowned upon by his superiors. Cronauer meets Trinh , a Vietnamese girl, and follows her to an English class. Bribing the teacher to let him take over the job, Cronauer starts instructing the students in the use of American slang. Once class is dismissed, he tries to talk to Trinh but is stopped by her brother Tuan. Instead, Cronauer befriends Tuan and takes him to Jimmy Wah's, the local G.I. bar, to have drinks with Garlick and the station staff. Two other soldiers, angered at Tuan's presence, start a fight that escalates into a brawl. Dickerson reprimands Cronauer for this incident, but the broadcasts go on as usual. While relaxing in Jimmy Wah's one afternoon, he is pulled outside by Tuan moments before the building explodes, killing two soldiers and leaving Cronauer badly shaken. The cause of the explosion is determined to be a bomb; the news is censored, but he locks himself in the studio and reports it anyway. Dickerson cuts off the broadcast and Cronauer is suspended. Hauk takes over his time slots, but his poor attempts at comedy and insistence on playing polka music, lead to a flood of letters and phone calls from servicemen who demand that Cronauer be put back on the air. In the meantime, Cronauer spends his time drinking and pursuing Trinh, only to be rebuffed at every attempt. At the radio station Taylor intervenes on his behalf, ordering Hauk to reinstate him, but Cronauer refuses to go back to work. Garlick and Cronauer's vehicle is stopped by a convoy of soldiers, who persuade him to do an impromptu "broadcast" for them before they go off to fight. This performance reminds him why his job is important, and he is soon back on the air. Dickerson devises a ploy to get rid of Cronauer by sending him and Garlick to interview soldiers in the field – knowing that the only road into the area is controlled by the Viet Cong. Their jeep is blown off the road by a mine and they are forced to hide in the jungle from the VC patrols. In Saigon, Tuan learns of their trip after Cronauer fails to show up for English class, steals a van and drives off after them. He finds them, but the van breaks down and they must flag down an Army helicopter to take them back to the city. At the station, Dickerson confronts Cronauer, declaring he is now off the air for good. His friend Tuan is a VC operative who was responsible for the bombing of Jimmy Wah's. Dickerson has arranged for an honorable discharge, provided Cronauer leaves "quietly." Brigadier General Taylor arrives, and informs Cronauer that he cannot help him. Once Cronauer has left, Taylor informs Dickerson that he is being transferred to Guam. The next day, on his way to the airport, Cronauer sets up a quick softball game with the students from his English class. As he boards the plane, he gives Garlick a taped farewell message; Garlick – taking Cronauer's place as DJ – plays the tape on the air the next morning. It begins with a yell of "Gooooooooooooooooodbye, Vietnam!" and runs through a few of Cronauer's impressions before ending with his wish that everyone will get home safely.