On the first day of summer, dim-witted but charming Ed , experiences a nightmare featuring talking burgers. Troubled by the nightmare, Ed shows up late to work at Good Burger. On the same morning, Dexter , a fellow high school student of Ed, steals his mother's car after she leaves for a business trip. Dexter accidentally crashes into his teacher, Mr. Wheat's  car. With no driver's license or insurance, Dexter is in danger of going to jail. However, Mr. Wheat agrees to allow Dexter to pay for a total of $2,500 in car damages instead of calling the police. Dexter must find a summer job to pay for the expenses. Dexter first finds employment at Mondo Burger. However, after he insults Mondo Burger's manager, Kurt Bozwell , he was fired and found employment at Good Burger. There, he meets and reluctantly befriends Ed and a slew of colorful employees. However, little does Dexter know...Ed inadvertently caused the car accident. After waking up late, Ed rushes to work on rollerblades. He then skates in front of Dexter, causing him to swerve and hit Mr. Wheat's car. Dexter finds much success at Good Burger. However, his success at Good Burger takes a turn for the worse. Across the street from Good Burger, a Mondo Burger opens. The popular Mondo Burger produces over-sized burgers, much bigger than the Good Burger burgers. However, with the invention of Ed's "secret sauce", Good Burger is saved. After Dexter realizes that Ed caused his car accidents, Dexter takes part of Ed's credit to pay off the debt. Ed's sauce reigns success, causing Mondo Burger's Manager, Kurt to attempt to steal the sauce. First, he entices Ed with a higher hourly wage at Mondo Burger. Dedicated to Good Burger, Ed denies Kurt's request. Kurt then sends in the notorious, Roxanne  to seduce Ed and find the ingredients of the "secret sauce". With her attempts, Ed injures her. After, Ed and Dexter disguise themselves as old women and enter Mondo Burger. They discover that Mondo Burger chemically induces their burgers  with "Triampathol", an illegal food additive. Kurt realizes the old women are Dexter and Ed, and kidnaps them. He sends them to the Demented Hills Mental Hospital to prevent the public from believing the Mondo Burger's secret. After sending Ed and Dexter to Demented Hills, Kurt and his employees break into Good Burger after closing hours and poison Ed's secret sauce with shark poison. When Ed and Dexter's co-worker Otis  attempts to stop them, Kurt then takes him captive and sends him to Demented Hills, as well. There, Otis tells the duo about Kurt's scheme to ruin the secret sauce. They devise a plan to escape. Ed begins to dance and sing, encouraging the other patients to dance. After the entire mental hospital breaks out in dance, the trio escapes the mental hospital. They steal an ice cream van to leave the hospital. Then, Ed and Dexter break into Mondo Burger and expose the chemically-induced burgers to the police. Ed tries to take a can of Triampathol, but accidentally knocks one into the meat grinder. Ed then pours the rest of the substance into the grinder. Kurt catches Ed and Dexter. Just before he attempts to rid the two, the Mondo Burger building begins blow up as a cause of the Triampathol-overdosed burgers exploding. After the building destructs, the police arrests Kurt for illegal substance use. With the destruction of Mondo Burger, Mr. Wheat's car is destroyed once again . Ed and Dexter then walk back to Good Burger where the Good Burger employees praise the two as Good Burger heroes. The film ends with Ed infamously saying "Welcome to Good Burger, home of the Good Burger, can I take your order?"