{{plot}} Owen Baker  is a 12-year-old who has been working as the neighborhood dog-walker so he can earn the privilege of getting a dog of his own. Owen's hard work pays off when his parents, Mr. and Mrs. Baker , let Owen adopt a scruffy Border Terrier that he names Hubble . Owen has little time to make lasting friends, so he hopes Hubble will be his best friend. Owen does have a friend named Connie Flemming , a girl his age who lives in the neighborhood. But that won't be for long if Owen's parents continue their trend of buying and selling houses. Owen and Hubble get more than they bargained for when Owen wakes up one morning to discover that he can understand every word Hubble says—including the ominous phrase: "Take me to your leaders." Owen learns that dogs came to Earth thousands of years ago to colonize and dominate the planet. Hubble, who is really named Canid 3942, has been sent by the powerful Greater Dane  on a mission from the Dog Star Sirius 7 to make sure dogs have fulfilled this destiny. The dogs Owen walks include pampered Poodle Barbara Ann , cool Boxer Wilson , nervous Italian Greyhound Nelly  and gassy Bernese Mountain Dog Shep . Despite the best efforts of Owen and this rag-tag group of neighborhood dogs to convince Hubble that everything is fine with Earth's dogs, Hubble soon discovers the awful truth about Earth dogs: "You're all pets!" Things get worse when Hubble learns that the Greater Dane is headed for Earth to do her own inspection. If things don't look right, all dogs on Earth will be recalled to Sirius 7. Now Owen and Hubble must work together to prepare the neighborhood dogs for a visit from The Greater Dane and her Chinese Crested henchman . Owen, Hubble, Connie, and their canine companions set out to whip the other dogs into shape so that they can pass muster. Over the course of the attempts, Owen and Hubble develop a close friendship and Hubble slowly starts to act more like an Earth dog, defending Owen against bullies and trying to learn how to play fetch. Ultimately the Greater Dane shows up and is disgusted by what she sees and recalls all dogs home despite Owen's pleas which anger her more as humans aren't supposed to be able to communicate with dogs. The dogs are allowed to say goodbye and Hubble admits he really does like Owen, but doesn't know how to express that very well as he doesn't know Earth customs. Hearing Hubble tell him is enough for Owen as he's the only person whose dog can actually tell them that. When Hubble leaves, he leaves his rock necklace  for Owen to remember him by. After the dogs leave, all of the owners are depressed and Owen's family prepares to move. Owen repairs Hubble's communicator and sends out a message to Hubble about how much he cares for him and the Greater Dane gets it. The message intrigues her and she asks Hubble about why dogs on Earth are like this. Hubble believes that it's the love between humans and dogs and the partnership that creates a great loyalty between the dogs and their humans. When asked about his own loyalty, Hubble tells the Greater Dane to call him Hubble rather than Canid 3942, showing that his loyalty is to Owen. The Greater Dane allows the Earth dogs to return to Earth and declares them a separate breed. Hubble is allowed to return as well and reunites with Owen, but has to remove Owen's ability to understand the dogs as the condition to his return. The dogs all reunite with their owners and Hubble becomes Owen's dog permanently and Owen's parents decide not to move again and to stay. The movie ends with the dogs playing with Owen and Connie again and Hubble has now finally mastered the game of fetch. Hubble is also a lot more affectionate to Owen after his return.