{{Further2}} Now fourteen years old, Harry Potter dreams of an elderly man, Frank Bryce, who is killed after overhearing Lord Voldemort discussing plans with Peter "Wormtail" Pettigrew and Barty Crouch Jr. The Quidditch World Cup allows Harry to take his mind off his nightmares until followers of Voldemort known as Death Eaters terrorise the spectators' campsites after the match, and Crouch Jr. summons the Dark Mark, a sign showing that Voldemort is returning to power. At Hogwarts, headmaster Albus Dumbledore introduces ex-Auror Alastor "Mad-Eye" Moody as the new Defence Against the Dark Arts teacher. In their first Defence Against the Dark Arts lesson, the students learn of the three Unforgivable Curses. The Imperius Curse causes absence of free will, the Cruciatus Curse causes unbearable pain, and the final curse, Avada Kedavra, causes death. Dumbledore announces that the school will host the Triwizard Tournament, in which one wizard from each of the three magical schools competes in three challenges. The champions are selected by the Goblet of Fire, a magical cup into which the candidates' names are placed. Fred and George attempt to enter using an aging potion as no one under 17 can enter. This fails miserably. Cedric Diggory, a student from the House of Hufflepuff, is chosen to represent Hogwarts, Viktor Krum is chosen to represent Durmstrang Institute, and Fleur Delacour is selected to represent Beauxbatons Academy of Magic. The Goblet unexpectedly chooses a fourth champion: Harry. As Harry is underage and should have been ineligible to compete, Hogwarts teachers and students grow suspicious, and the feat drives Ron and Harry apart. The teachers want Dumbledore to pull Harry out of the tournament, but the four champions are bound by a magical contract and therefore Dumbledore has no choice and Harry must compete. For the first task of the Triwizard Tournament, each of the champions must retrieve a golden egg guarded by a dragon. Mad-Eye advises Harry to use his talent for flying to overcome the dragon. Harry enters the first task and summons his broomstick to retrieve the egg, which contains information about the second challenge. The students are soon informed of the Yule Ball, a Christmas Eve ball held during the Triwizard Tournament. Ron and Harry have trouble finding dates to the ball and when they find out that Hermione is attending with Viktor Krum, Ron becomes jealous. In exchange for previous aid, Cedric provides Harry with a clue that prompts him to open the egg underwater. With help from Moaning Myrtle, he learns that the second task entails the retrieval of "something precious" to each of the competitors from the nearby Black Lake, where there are mermaids. While preparing for the task, Neville Longbottom provides Harry with Gillyweed, enabling him to breathe underwater for one hour. Harry is the first to arrive at the location, and finds Ron, Hermione, Cho Chang and Fleur's sister, Gabrielle, in suspended animation. Finishing last after attempting to free Ron and Gabrielle, Harry is awarded second place for "outstanding moral fiber", behind Cedric. Following an exchange with Mad-Eye, Ministry official Barty Crouch, Sr. is found dead by Harry shortly after the second task. While waiting in Dumbledore's office, Harry's curiosity leads him to look into Dumbledore's pensieve, causing him to revisit one of Dumbledore's memories. He witnesses a trial before the Wizengamot in which captured Death Eater Igor Karkaroff, the current headmaster of Durmstrang, denounces a number of Death Eaters, including both Severus Snape and Barty Crouch Jr. While Dumbledore vouches for Snape's integrity, Crouch Sr. is horrified at this revelation and disowns his maniacal son, sending him to Azkaban. Upon returning to the present time, Dumbledore tells Harry that he is searching his memories for a clue as to why extraordinary events have taken place at Hogwarts since the start of the tournament. In the Triwizard Tournament's third and final task, the competitors are placed inside a hedge maze; their challenge is to reach the Triwizard Cup. Krum, acting under the Imperius curse, incapacitates Fleur and attempts to do the same to Cedric. Harry stops Cedric from attacking Krum, and the two run for the cup. When Cedric is trapped by vines, Harry frees him and the two claim a draw and grab hold of the cup together. The cup, which is a Portkey, transports the two champions to a graveyard where Wormtail and Voldemort are waiting for Harry. Wormtail murders Cedric, traps Harry, then performs a ritual that rejuvenates Voldemort, who then summons the Death Eaters  and bids them to witness a duel between their Dark Lord and his nemesis. As Harry, who is tortured by Voldemort, fights him, a connection called Priori Incantatem occurs between their wands. Harry's wand forces Voldemort's to disgorge the spirits of the people Voldemort has most recently murdered, including Harry's parents, Frank Bryce and Cedric. Harry is briefly protected by the spirits and escapes with Cedric's body  using the cup. Upon his return, Harry tells Dumbledore and Minister for Magic Cornelius Fudge that Voldemort has returned and is responsible for Cedric's death. Mad-Eye leads a devastated Harry back to the castle, where his questions make Harry suspicious. Mad-Eye reveals it was he who put Harry's name in the Goblet, assisted Cedric and Neville in helping Harry, cursed Krum and so on. Dumbledore, Snape and McGonagall arrive and force Veritaserum, a truth-telling potion down Mad-Eye's throat. He reveals he is not Alastor "Mad-Eye" Moody and the real one is imprisoned in a magical trunk minus his magical eye and fake leg. The false Mad-Eye's Polyjuice Potion  wears off and he is revealed as Barty Crouch Jr., who shows a pulsing Dark Mark tattoo on his forearm meaning Voldemort's returned. Soon after, students and staff of Hogwarts, Durmstrang and Beauxbatons gather in the Great Hall to say farewell to Cedric. Dumbledore exhorts them to stand together against Voldemort, as the representatives from Durmstrang and Beauxbatons leave Hogwarts.