{{Plot}} ===Act 1=== As an introduction a Greek chorus beseeches a "Muse of fire" that the actor playing King Henry might "assume the port of Mars", so that he can kindle the audience's imagination and make forget the stage setting's limits. The scene then cuts to early 15th century England. The Bishop of Ely and the Archbishop of Canterbury conspire to distract young King Henry V from passing a decree that might confiscate power from the church. They agree to talk him into invading France. Therefore Canterbury appears in the throne room and explains to the King's advisers that Henry is rightful heir to the throne of France on the grounds of Salic law. Supported by the noblemen Exeter and Westmoreland the clergymen manage to persuade Henry to declare war on France in case his claim on the French crown is denied. Consequently Henry calls in the French ambassador Mountjoy who represents the Dauphin. The Dauphin's condescending response enrages Henry. He states his determination to attack France, dismisses the ambassador and then starts immediately to prepare his campaign. ===Act 2=== At a London tavern Bardolph tries to resolve a fight over Mistress Quickly, who was supposed to marry Nym but then wed Pistol, when a messenger informs everyone present that their friend Sir John Falstaff is deathly ill. They stop quarreling and visit him. Falstaff's former friend Henry V, who recently ignored him, is blamed to hereby have caused Falstaff illness. Little later Bardolph, Nym, Pistol and Mistress Quickly, and the boy grieve Falstaff's demise. Even so, the men must leave for the war after all and bid farewell to Mistress Quickly. At the White Cliffs of Dover, the Greek chorus explains that three traitors have been found among Henry's advisors: the Earl of Cambridge, Lord Scroop, and Sir Thomas Grey. Later, in Southampton, while he is preparing for France, Henry tricks the three traitors, who do still feel safe, into pronouncing their own sentence by asking advice on a similar case. When they show little mercy, the King reveals his knowledge of their sedition and orders their execution before he departs for France. Meanwhile in France, Charles VI, the King of France and his noblemen discuss the graveness of King Henry's threats. The Dauphin doesn't fear Henry, but Charles and the Constable of France are worried because of Henry's martial ancestors and previous English invasions. Indeed Henry has already landed in France and his messenger Exeter now arrives in full armor at the court. He informs them that Henry demands the French crown and everything connected to it and that otherwise Henry will conquer France. King Charles tells Exeter he will give him a response for Henry next morning. ===Act 3=== King Charles has tried to settle the conflict by offering Henry the hand of his daughter Catherine in marriage and as dowry various dukedoms. Catherine already asks her lady-in-waiting Alice to teach her some basics in English. The correct English pronounciation is very hard for her to learn but she is determined to accomplish it. Yet King Henry is not interested. He delivers morale-boosting speeches to his troops and attacks the castle at Harfleur. When the Dauphin doesn't manage to raise enough troops to protect Harfleur in time, the town's mayor finally surrenders in return for Henry's promise to do Harfleur's population no harm. Henry choses Harfleur as headquarters and has it fortified as a citadel. Meanwhile King Charles and the Dauphin order their nobles to raise troops for a huge army in order to chase away or capture Henry. While Henry's army advances, Bardolf loots a church. Pistol begs for Bardolf but Henry sees the execution through. The French ambassador Mountjoy then arrives and asks Henry to pay war reparations because otherwise he might lose his army and be taken prisoner. Henry states unimpressed it was his Royal prerogative to rule France and that his army was good enough. The Chorus then transitions the scene to the French camp, where the French noblemen belittle King Henry and his army and prepare for the fight eagerly. ===Act 4=== At the night before battle Henry and his brothers, Gloucester and Bedford discuss the readiness of their troops with the experienced soldier Sir Thomas Erpingham. As a result Henry decides to investigate undercover. He disguises himself with a worn cloak and pretends to be a common soldier named Harry le Roy. Soon he runs into a man called Williams who speaks derogatory about the King's course. Instead of being able to convince him otherwise, Henry happens to agree with Williams on a duel after the battle. When Williams and his friends leave the King alone, Henry breaks into a monologue about his burdens and prays to god for help. Next morning the English Army is obviously outnumbered five to one. Henry encourages his troops with his St. Crispin's Day Speech and responds in a very bold manner to the Dauphin's messenger Mountjoy when he is offered peace for a price. Mountjoy's report enrages the proud French knights who attack immediately. But the Welsh long bow archers put down a large part of the French heavy cavalry before any French knight reaches the English lines. Even the Constable of France gets killed. The dismayed French knights realize their downfall. After they have decided to die in battle altogether, some of them manage to get behind enemy lines. They search the English camp but cannot capture the English King. Deprived of any hope to turn the battle they behave completly outside the chivalric code by even killing the young pages. Henry and his soldier Fluellen here about this and are still apalled when the Dauphin sends his messenger Mountjoy to surrender. ===Act 5=== Finally negotiations are made for Henry to be named king of both England and France. He has a brief romantic interlude with Catherine while the French and English royal delegations negotiate the Treaty of Troyes. The Greek chorus informs the audience that an English-French union lasted as long as Henry V lived and was only lost under his successor Henry VI.