Four internationally wanted criminals named Peter Beaupre , Alice Ribbons , Burton Jernigan , and Earl Unger  have stolen a valuable missile cloaking computer chip for a North Korean terrorist group. They put it inside a toy remote control car to sneak it past security. At San Francisco International Airport, Mrs. Hess  accidentally takes the bag with the remote control car in it. The four thieves arrive in Chicago and systematically search every house in Mrs. Hess' neighborhood to find the chip. Eight-year-old Alex Pruitt  is given the remote control car by Mrs. Hess for shoveling snow, and soon becomes ill with the chicken pox and must stay home. While at home, Alex sees the thieves through his telescope and calls the police. The thieves leave by the time the police come. After Alex reports the thieves again, they still manage to get away, and the police do not believe him. Alex decides to take matters into his own hands, and mounts a camera on his remote control car and attempts to film some footages of the thieves, who are searching in every house to find the chip. He eventually films Beaupre, but the remote control car is discovered before it can get away and Beaupre takes the tape, leaving Alex with no evidence. Wondering what the thieves want with a remote control car, Alex opens it and discovers the stolen chip and immediately calls Chicago's Air Force Recruitment Center and informs them about the chip. The thieves finds out that Alex has the chip and decide to go after him. They block off the road to the house, and Alice duct tapes Mrs. Hess to a porch chair in her garage and leaves the door open. By this point, Alex has armed his house with more violent booby traps. After several break-in attempts, the thieves pursue Alex. Alex runs to the attic and goes into the dumbwaiter down to the basement, and runs outside and calls to Alice, Jernigan and Unger. They see Alex and notice a trampoline below them. Jernigan and Unger jump, but the trampoline gives way and they fall into a frozen pool. Alice wriggles her way into the dumbwaiter chute, but falls down to the basement. Alex rescues Mrs. Hess and is cornered by Beaupre, but scares him off with a fake gun. Meanwhile, the FBI, who has also been tracking the stolen chip, goes to Alex's school after being tipped off by the Air Force. Alex's family brings the agents to their house, where the police arrest Alice, Jernigan, and Unger. However, Beaupre managed to escape and hides in the snow fort in the backyard. Alex's brother Stan's pet parrot drives the remote control car into the snow fort and threatens to light fireworks which are lined around the inside. Beaupre offers a cracker, but the parrot demands two. Since he only has one, the parrot then lights the fireworks, and escapes. Beaupre's cover is literally blown, and the police arrest him. Sometime later, Alex and his family celebrate with his father returning. Mrs. Hess, who befriends Alex after he successfully rescues her, is there along with the FBI and the police while Alex's house is being repaired. In the final scene of the film, while the four thieves are having their mugshot photos taken, they are shown to have Alex's chicken pox.