===The Rivers ===  A family led by Zebulon Prescott  sets out for the frontier west via the Erie Canal, the “west” at this time being the Illinois country. On the journey, they meet mountain man Linus Rawlings  who is traveling east to Pittsburgh to trade his furs. He and Zebulon's daughter Eve  are attracted to each other, but Linus is not ready to settle down. Linus stops at an isolated trading post run by a murderous clan of river pirates headed by "Colonel" Hawkins . Linus is betrayed when he accompanies pretty Dora Hawkins  into a cave to see a "varmint". She stabs him in the back and pushes him into a deep hole. Fortunately, he is not seriously wounded, and is able to rescue the Prescott party from a similar fate. The bushwhacking thieves , including Dora, are dispatched with rough frontier justice. After burning the thieves' bodies in a massive funeral pyre  and praying to God for the salvation of the thieves' souls "whether You want 'em or not", the settlers continue down the river, but their raft is caught in rapids and Zebulon and his wife Rebecca  drown. Linus, finding that he cannot live without Eve, reappears and marries her, even though she insists on homesteading at the spot where her parents died. ===The Plains ===  Eve's sister Lilith  chooses to go to St. Louis, where she finds work performing in a dance hall. She attracts the attention of professional gambler Cleve Van Valen . After overhearing that she has just inherited a California gold mine, and to avoid paying his debts to another gambler , Cleve joins the wagon train taking her there. He and wagonmaster Roger Morgan  court her along the way, but she turns them both down, much to the dismay of her new friend and fellow traveler Agatha Clegg , who is searching for a husband. Surviving an attack by Cheyenne Indians, Lilith and Cleve arrive at the mine, only to find that it is now worthless. Cleve leaves. Lilith returns to work in a dance hall in a literal "Camp Town," living out of a covered wagon. Morgan finds her and again proposes marriage in a rather unromantic way. She tells him, "No, not ever." Later, Lilith is singing in the music salon of a riverboat. By chance, Cleve is a passenger. When he hears Lilith's voice, he leaves the poker table  to propose to her, telling her of the opportunities waiting in the rapidly growing city of San Francisco. She accepts. ===The Civil War ===  Linus joins the Union army as a captain in the American Civil War. Despite Eve's wishes, their son Zeb  eagerly enlists as well, looking for glory and an escape from farming. Corporal Peterson  assures them the conflict won't last very long. The bloody Battle of Shiloh shows Zeb that war is nothing like he imagined and, unknown to him, his father Linus dies there. He encounters a similarly disillusioned Confederate  who suggests deserting, to which Zeb agrees. However, by chance, they overhear a private conversation between Generals Ulysses S. Grant  and William Tecumseh Sherman . The rebel realizes he has the opportunity to rid the South of two of its greatest enemies and tries to shoot them, leaving Zeb no choice but to stab and kill him. Afterwards, Zeb rejoins the army. When the war finally ends, he returns home, only to find his mother has died. She had lost the will to live after learning that Linus had been killed. Zeb gives his share of the family farm to his brother, who is more tied to the land, and leaves in search of a more interesting life. ===The Railroad ===  Following the daring riders from the Pony Express and the construction of the transcontinental telegraph line in the late 1860s, two ferociously competing railroad lines, the Central Pacific Railroad and the Union Pacific Railroad, one building west and the other east, open up new territory to eager settlers. Zeb becomes a lieutenant in the U.S. cavalry, trying to maintain peace with the Indians with the help of grizzled buffalo hunter Jethro Stuart , an old friend of Linus. When ruthless railroad man Mike King  violates a treaty by building on Indian territory, the Arapaho Indians retaliate by stampeding buffalo through his camp, killing many, including women and children. Disgusted, Zeb resigns and heads to Arizona. An entire subplot starring Hope Lange as Jethro Stuart's daughter, a love interest of Zeb, was edited out. ===The Outlaws ===  In San Francisco, widowed Lilith's auctions off her possessions  to pay her debts. She travels to Arizona, inviting Zeb and his family to oversee her remaining asset, a ranch. Zeb , his wife Julie  and their children meet Lilith at Gold City's train station. However, Zeb also runs into an old enemy there, outlaw Charlie Gant . It is revealed that Zeb killed Gant's brother in a gunfight. When Gant makes veiled threats against Zeb and his family, Zeb turns to his friend and Gold City's marshal, Lou Ramsey , but Gant is not wanted for anything in that territory, so there is little Ramsey can do. Zeb decides he has to act rather than wait for Gant to make good his threat to show up someday. Suspecting Gant of planning to rob an unusually large gold shipment being transported by train, he prepares an ambush with Ramsey's reluctant help. Gant and his entire gang  are killed in the shootout. In the end, Lilith and the Rawlings family travel to their new home. A short epilogue shows modern Los Angeles and San Francisco in the early 1960s, including the famous four-level downtown freeway interchange and Golden Gate Bridge, indicating the growth of the West in 80 years.