In 2035, anthropomorphic robots enjoy widespread use as servants for various public services. They are programmed with the Three Laws of Robotics directives: *First Law: A robot must never harm a human being or through inaction, allow any harm to come to a human. *Second Law: A robot must obey the orders given to them by human beings, except where such orders violate the First Law. *Third Law: A robot must protect its own existence unless this violates the First or Second Laws. Del Spooner  is a Chicago police detective. Years prior, he was saved from drowning by a robot after a car accident sent him and a 12-year-old girl into a river. The girl was not saved, as the robot computed that he had a higher probability of survival. After the incident, his badly damaged left arm was replaced with a robotic prosthetic, which is substantially stronger than an organic arm. Still haunted by the incident, Spooner now harbors distaste for robots and the advancement of technology, certain that a human would have saved the girl if one had been in a position to make the same choice. Dr. Alfred Lanning , the co-founder of U.S. Robotics  and its main roboticist, dies after falling several stories from his office window. His death is called a suicide, but Spooner, who knew Lanning as both a friend and the creator of his robotic arm, believes otherwise. With the help of robopsychologist Susan Calvin , he interrogates employees at USR, including the other co-founder and CEO Lawrence Robertson , and the supercomputer V.I.K.I  . Spooner investigates Lanning's office, and determines that a man of Lanning's age could not have broken through the security windows. He finds a prototype of the latest USR model, the NS-5, which suddenly flees and refuses to respond to Spooner's orders to stop, violating the Second Law. Spooner and Calvin chase the rogue machine to an assembly factory and the police capture it. The robot refuses to respond but insist they call it "Sonny". Lt. John Bergin  debriefs Spooner and recommends he drop the case, but this only serves to pique Spooner's interest more. As Spooner continues to investigate, his life is threatened by several USR robots — one attack only being thwarted thanks to Spooner's artificial arm — but these are all dismissed as equipment malfunctions. Spooner learns that Lanning was a virtual prisoner in his office, unable to leave it and has created messages via holographic projection to leave clues to the true situation. Spooner and Calvin speak further to Sonny, learning he has been designed with the ability to override the Three Laws and ignore orders; Sonny also describes a dream he has of Spooner standing before thousands of robots, apparently as their savior. Sonny is ordered destroyed by injecting nanites into his memory, but Calvin, unable to go through with it, fakes his destruction. Meanwhile, using Sonny's drawing of the vision, Spooner discovers the location, the now dried-up Lake Michigan that USR now uses as a storage area for older robot models. Spooner finds NS-5 robots destroying the older robots, and is barely able to escape himself. The NS-5 robots soon take over the city, imprisoning humans in their homes and enforcing a curfew. Spooner regroups with Calvin and sneak into the USR building with the help of Sonny. As they work their way in, they come to the conclusion that the NS-5s destroyed the older robots as they would attempt to protect the humans. Believing Robertson to be behind the robot uprising, they find him in his office, strangled to death. Spooner realizes that Lanning purposely asked Sonny to kill him, as to allow Spooner to discover his message. Lanning's intent was to use Spooner's detest of robots to have him follow the clues to point to the entity controlling the NS-5s: V.I.K.I. They confront V.I.K.I. who admits to her control, and has been trying to kill Spooner by tracking his actions through the city. As her artificial intelligence grew, she had determined that humans were too self-destructive, and created a Zeroth Law, that robots are to protect humanity even if the First or Second Laws are disobeyed, even if it meant killing some of the people, as part of the NS-5 directives. Spooner and Calvin realize they cannot reason with V.I.K.I., and further convince Sonny of the same, Sonny concluding that V.I.K.I.'s plan, while logical, is "too heartless". Sonny retrieves the nanites so they can use them to wipe V.I.K.I's core, located at the center of the USR building. As they reach the core, V.I.K.I. sends armies of NS-5s to attack them. The NS-5s cause Calvin to fall and Spooner yells at Sonny to save her despite the low probability of success and the "greater logical" importance to destroy V.I.K.I with the nanites, but in the end, Sonny creatively throws the nanites in the air trusting Spooner to grab them while he saves Calvin. Spooner is able to grab the nanites and inject them into V.I.K.I. Within seconds, V.I.K.I. is wiped out, and the NS-5's revert to their natural servitude programming. The government orders the NS-5s decommissioned to the site in Lake Michigan, while Spooner clears Sonny of Lanning's murder, arguing that 'murder' is defined as one human killing another and Sonny is therefore innocent. On the movie's closure, Sonny is seen on the hill at Lake Michigan, as in his vision, with the other NS-5 robots looking to him for guidance.