{{Plot}} Julie James is getting over the events of the previous film, which nearly claimed her life. She hasn't been doing well in school and is continuously having nightmares involving Ben Willis  still haunting her . Approaching the 4th July weekend, Ray  surprises her at her dorm. He invites her back up to Southport for the Croaker queen pageant. She objects and tells him she has not healed enough to go back. He tells her she needs some space away from Southport and him and leaves in a rush. That night someone enters Julie's room. She grabs a knife out of her bedside drawer and hunts all over her room for the fisherman. She runs into her roommate Karla  who tells her she needs to get out and have some fun. They go out to a disco club with Karla's boyfriend Tyrell  and Julie's friend Will Benson . After seeing an illusion of the fisherman Julie leaves in a hurry. The next morning, Karla gets a phone call from a radio station and wins a contest for a holiday to the Caribbean by naming the capital of Brazil as Rio. Julie invites Ray who is not sure if he should go and tells her to have a good time if he can't make it. Ray's friend Dave  convinces him to go and surprise her. Dave and Ray run into Barry's Beamer  and find the fisherman lying dead on the road. While Ray goes to inspect, Dave is killed by the actual fisherman. The fisherman tries to run Ray down, but Ray jumps down a steep hill and disappears from the fisherman's sight, supposedly dead. Karla, Julie, Tyrell and Will leave for the Bahamas. When they arrive, many tourists are enjoying themselves and resort employees are milling around, but the group soon discovers that most everyone will be gone by tomorrow since it's the start of storm season. While the main characters are enjoying themselves, the dockhand, Darik , is slashed across the head; the maid, Olga , is killed by being impaled in the back by the fisherman; and the poolboy, Titus , is killed by the killer also. Ray, having woken up in hospital and realizing the Fisherman is trying to kill Julie, tries to ring the hotel but is unsuccessful. He pawns his engagement ring for Julie and buys a gun and heads to the island. Back on the island, Julie finds the dockhand's body in her closet and runs outside to tell everyone. When they all go back to check, they find the body gone and all the blood cleaned up. The hotel manager, Mr. Brookes , tells them the next few days will be rough because of the wetaher and tells them to stay put in the meantime. The next morning Julie is locked in a tanning bed by the fisherman, while Karla finds the body of the maid in the dryer. After finding the body of Titus, Will and Tyrell realize the girls are in danger. They save Karla and Julie but when they go to find Brookes they find him with a machete through his head and the radio destroyed. All the boats on the island have been cut loose, and Estes , the baggage handler, is the prime suspect. Julie finds Estes who informs her that the trip was a set-up intended to lure them onto the island because they didn't get the radio question right  and that he knows who Ben Willis is and that he lived on the island for many years and raised a family. Back in the hotel, Julie, Karla, and Tyrell go and hide in the pantry where Nancy , the bartender, has been hiding. Tyrell is impaled in the neck by the fisherman, and the three women run out up to the attic with the killer following behind them. Karla gets her foot stuck in the roof of the room below as the fisherman breaks through and attacks her but they fall through the roof and into the room below. Karla runs for her life, jumping off the balcony into the glass house below. Julie and Nancy run down to the glass house and find Karla okay. The fisherman enters the glass house and narrowly misses Karla after Julie breaks the window on the door open with an axe. They go to hide in the storm shelter and find the bodies of the fisherman's latest victims down there. Will comes in and tells them the fisherman's gone. Inside the hotel, Julie tends the wound Estes inflicted on Will while Nancy and Karla go and look for the first aid kit. Nancy finds Estes who has been impaled with a sharp tool. Estes's body falls onto her as the fisherman comes in and pushes the tool through Estes and into Nancy, killing her as Karla watches in horror. He runs after Karla and presumably kills her. Meanwhile Will reveals the blood on his shirt is not his and that he is Ben Willis' son. He drags Julie out to the graveyard where Ben Willis meets them and unmasks. As he is about to kill Julie, Ray shows up aiming his gun at them. The gun misfires and Will and Ray fight. As the fisherman is about to hook Ray, Ray jumps out of the way in time, and Ben accidentally kills his son. Julie shoots Ben several times until he falls into the open grave. The next morning, the coast guard informs them a rescue team is on the way. Karla is still alive and is delighted to see Ray. A while later, Julie and Ray have bought a home. One night Julie suspects someone is in the house. Ray is in the bathroom but the door strangely shuts. And when Julie convinces herself it's nothing, she sees Ben under her bed. She screams and tries to escape, but he grabs her legs and pulls her under the bed. Is this a bad dream?