 Dixon "Dix" Steele  is a down-on-his-luck screenwriter who has not had a hit "since before the war." While driving to meet his agent, Mel Lippman , at a nightclub, Dix's explosive temper is revealed at a stop light along the way. At the nightclub, Mel cajoles him to adapt a book for a movie. The hat-check girl, Mildred Atkinson , is engrossed in reading it and asks if she can finish, since she only has a few pages left. Dix has a second violent outburst when a young director bad-mouths Dix's friend Charlie , a washed-up actor. Dix claims to be too tired to read the novel, so he asks Mildred to go home with him, ostensibly to explain the plot. As they enter the courtyard of his apartment, they pass a new tenant, Laurel Gray . As soon as Mildred is convinced that Dix's motives are honorable, she describes the story and confirms what he had suspected—the book is trash. He gives her cab fare to get home. The next morning, he is awakened by an old army buddy, now a police detective, Brub Nicholai , who takes him downtown to be questioned by Captain Lochner . Mildred was murdered during the night and Dix is a suspect. Laurel is brought to the police station and confirms seeing the girl leave Dix's apartment alone, but Lochner is still deeply suspicious. Although Dix shows no overt sympathy for the dead victim, he anonymously sends her a dozen white roses.  When he gets home, Dix checks up on Laurel. He finds she is an aspiring actress with only a few low-budget films to her credit. They begin to fall in love; this invigorates Dix into going back to work with a vengeance, much to his agent's delight. However, Dix behaves strangely. He says things that make his agent and Brub's wife Sylvia  wonder if he did kill the girl. In addition, Lochner sows seeds of doubt in Laurel's mind, pointing out Dix's lengthy record of violent behavior. Dix becomes furiously irrational when he learns of it. He drives at high speed, with Laurel a terrified passenger, until they sideswipe another car. Nobody is hurt; but, when the other driver accosts him, Dix beats him unconscious and is about to strike him with a large rock when Laurel stops him.  Laurel gets to the point where she cannot sleep without taking pills. Her distrust and fear of Dix are becoming too much for her. When he asks her to marry him, she accepts but only because she is too scared of what he might do if she refused. She makes a plane reservation and tells Mel she is leaving because she cannot take it anymore. Dix finds out and almost strangles her during a violent confrontation before he regains control. Just then, the phone rings. It is Brub with good news: Mildred's boyfriend  has confessed to her murder. Tragically, it is too late to salvage Dix and Laurel's relationship.