Down-on-his-luck naval aviator Lt. Tuck Pendleton  resigns his commission and volunteers for a secret miniaturization experiment. He is placed in a submersible pod, and both are shrunk to microscopic size. They are transferred into a syringe to be injected into a rabbit, but the lab is attacked, led by renegade scientist Dr. Margaret Canker . The experiment supervisor Ozzie Wexler  escapes with the syringe. After being fatally shot in a nearby shopping mall, he injects Tuck and the pod into Jack Putter , a hypochondriac grocery store clerk. The pod's equipment enables Tuck to see what Jack sees by connecting to his optic nerve and to communicate with him through his inner ear. The pod has only a few hours' supply of oxygen. With Tuck's guidance, Jack finds his recently estranged girlfriend, Lydia Maxwell . At the lab, the scientists explain to Tuck and Jack that another group wants to sell the miniaturization technology for use in espionage. In the raid on the lab, they stole one of two computer chips that are vital to the process. The group's mastermind is Victor Scrimshaw , and his main henchmen are "the Cowboy" , Mr. Igoe  and Margaret is scientific supervisor. Using the pod's equipment, Tuck controls the muscles of Jack's face to make it look like the Cowboy's, and with him posing as the Cowboy, they meet with Scrimshaw and steal the chip from him. However, Jack's nervousness overrides the transformation, exposing the scam. Mr. Igoe captures Jack and Lydia and takes them to the lab. There, Lydia is locked in Canker's office, while the criminals miniaturize Igoe and inject him into Jack's body to extract the second chip, which is inside the pod. Jack and Lydia escape, and he fights his way past the guards and steals the chip back, accidentally shrinking Scrimshaw, Margaret and their associates to midget size in the process. Mr. Igoe finds and attacks the pod, but Tuck disables Igoe's craft, and when he abandons it and clings to the pod, Tuck kills him by dropping into Jack's stomach, where Mr. Igoe is digested by Jack's stomach acid. With only minutes of supplemental oxygen left in the pod, Jack follows Tuck's instructions to eject the pod from his lungs by making himself sneeze. Tuck and the pod are enlarged, and he later marries Lydia, with Jack as his best man. The film ends with an open finale in which the Cowboy drives Tuck and Lydia's limousine, with Scrimshaw and Margaret, still miniaturized, stowed away in its trunk. Tuck has the chips on his cuff links. Now confident and in control of his life, Jack recognizes the Cowboy and jumps into Tuck's vintage Mustang to rescue the newlyweds.