Set in 1944-1945, the story focuses on an apolitical Irish district nurse, Pauline. Following an upsurge in partisan activity in her area, she is forcibly evacuated from her village by the Germans and their collaborators and witnesses an attack on the German forces by a group of British partisans, during which a number of her friends from the village are killed in the crossfire. The attack  later influences her views and decisions. She is evacuated to London, where she reluctantly becomes a collaborator, joining the medical wing of the "Immediate Action Organisation" , a kind of quasi-paramilitary medical corps and is re-trained as an ambulance attendant. Although at first reluctant and intent on remaining apolitical, Pauline begins to show the effects of fascist indoctrination in her behaviour. It is a reunion with old friends  that gives Pauline pause and when she subsequently discovers they are harbouring an injured partisan she reluctantly agrees to help. Gradually Pauline learns more about the impacts of the German occupation and she sees her friends arrested. The discovery of her association with the antifascist couple by her superiors in the IAO leads to her demotion and transfer to another part of the country. She welcomes the move at first, as her new job appears to have less of the paramilitary trappings. However Pauline discovers that she has unwittingly taken part in a forced euthanasia programme and killed a group of foreign forced labourers who had contracted tuberculosis. The film ends with Pauline being arrested after protesting and refusing to continue but before she can be put on trial, she is captured and agrees to work for the British Army as they try to liberate Great Britain with the help of arriving American troops. In the finale, Pauline tends wounded while, out of her view, a large group of soldiers from the Black Prince Regiment of the British Legion Compare British Free Corps - the only actual nominally British unit that fought for the axis in WWII of the Waffen SS who had surrendered are shot. This is reminiscent of an SS massacre of civilians earlier in the film showing the partisans to be as ruthless as the Germans.