Jacob Singer is a U.S. soldier deployed in the Mekong Delta during the Vietnam War. When the story begins, in 1971, helicopters are passing overhead, carrying supplies for what seems to be preparations for a Viet Cong offensive. Without any warning, Jacob's unit comes under heavy fire. The soldiers try to take cover but begin to exhibit strange behavior for no apparent reason. Jacob attempts to escape the unexplained insanity, only to be stabbed with a bayonet by an unseen attacker. The film then shifts back and forth from Vietnam to Jacob's memories  of his son Gabe and ex-wife Sarah, and to his present  relationship with a woman named Jezzie while working as a mailman in Brooklyn, New York City. During this latter period, Jacob faces several threats to his life and experiences grotesque hallucinations. It is also revealed that his son Gabe was hit by a car and killed before Jacob went to Vietnam. At a key moment, Jacob's friend and chiropractor, Louis, cites the 14th century Christian mystic Meister Eckhart: {{quote}} As the hallucinations become increasingly bizarre, Paul, one of his old Army friends, contacts Jacob to tell him about his hallucinations and is later killed when his car explodes. At the funeral, his surviving platoon-mates confess to Jacob they too have been seeing horrible hallucinations. Jacob is then approached by a man named Michael Newman, who claims to have been a chemist working with the Army's chemical warfare division in Saigon, where he worked on creating a drug that would increase aggression. The drug was code named "The Ladder" because it took people straight to their most primal urges. The drug was first tested on monkeys and then on a group of enemy POWs, with gruesome results. Later, small doses of "The Ladder" were secretly given to Jacob's battalion via their C-rations. Instead of targeting the enemy, however, the men in Jacob's unit attacked each other indiscriminately. This revelation insinuates that Jacob was stabbed by one of his fellow soldiers. The last scenes have Jacob returning to the apartment building he once lived in with Sarah. He enters and begins looking through an old shoe box, containing his memories and the pain he’s been clinging to, things like his dog tags and a picture of Gabe. Jacob then is surprised to see Gabe at the foot of the stairwell. Gabe takes Jacob by the hand and together the two of them ascend the stairwell and disappear into a bright light. At the dénouement, we learn Jacob never made it out of Vietnam; his body is shown in an Army triage tent with two surgeons just after he expired, with a now peaceful look on his face. Apparently, the entire series of events was his dying hallucination. Before the film credits, an on-screen title card states that reports of BZ testing by the U.S. Army on its soldiers during the Vietnam War were denied by the Pentagon. ===Literary antecedents=== {{cleanup}} The plot device of a long period of subjective time passing in an instant, such as the imagined experiences of Jacob while dying, has been explored by several authors. An early literary antecedent appears in Don Juan Manuel's Tales of Count Lucanor, Chapter XII, "Of that which happened to a Dean of Santiago, with Don Illan, the Magician, who lived at Toledo", in which a life happens in an instant . This story was rewritten by Jorge Luis Borges in "The Wizard Postponed", in his book A Universal History of Infamy . The story "An Occurrence at Owl Creek Bridge" by Ambrose Bierce narrates the long subjective experience of a Confederate sympathizer, who imagines that he has escaped and made a 30 mile journey to his home during the fraction of a second that it takes for the hangman's rope to break his neck. A similar hallucination of a year of subjective time passing at the moment of death occurs in Borges' short story "The Secret Miracle" . ==="The Ladder"=== Jacob is told that the horrific events he experienced on his final day in Vietnam were the product of an experimental drug called "The Ladder", which was used on troops without their knowledge. Jacob is told this by Michael, who is later seen treating his wounds in a Medevac helicopter. He is told that the drug was named for its ability to cause "a fast trip straight down the ladder, right to the primal fear, right to the base anger." At the end of the film, a message is displayed mentioning the testing of a drug named BZ, NATO code for a deliriant and hallucinogen known as 3-quinuclidinyl benzilate that was rumored to have been administered to U.S. troops by the government in a secret attempt to increase their fighting power. The effects of BZ, however, are different from the effects of the drug depicted in Jacob's Ladder. The film's director Adrian Lyne himself noted that "nothing ... suggests that the drug BZ&mdash;a super-hallucinogen that has a tendency to elicit maniac behavior&mdash;was used on U.S. troops."