 Billionaire John Hammond, CEO of InGen, has created Jurassic Park: a theme park populated with dinosaurs cloned from the DNA extracted from insects preserved in prehistoric amber. After a park worker is killed by a Velociraptor, Hammond's investors, represented by their lawyer Donald Gennaro, demand that experts visit the park and certify that it is safe. Gennaro invites Dr. Ian Malcolm, a mathematician, while Hammond invites paleontologist Dr. Alan Grant and paleobotanist Dr. Ellie Sattler. They are joined on the island by Hammond's grandchildren, Tim and Lex Murphy. Hammond asks Malcolm, Grant, and Sattler what their thoughts are about recreating dinosaur species. They debate the ethics of cloning extinct dinosaurs, with Gennaro being the only one to express optimism. The group sets off to explore the park while Hammond observes his guests along with Head Technician Ray Arnold and game warden Robert Muldoon. Grant spots a sick Triceratops and the group investigates. With a storm heading in, everyone returns to their vehicles except for Sattler, who stays with the park doctor to look after the animal. Jurassic Park's head computer programmer, Dennis Nedry, is secretly in the employ of one of InGen's corporate rivals, and has been paid to steal dinosaur embryos. During his theft, Nedry deactivates the park's security system, allowing him access to the embryo storage. Electric fences around the park are deactivated as a result, releasing a Tyrannosaurus. The T-Rex assaults the vehicle with Tim and Lex inside. Gennaro flees the vehicle and is subsequently eaten. Tim, Lex and Grant flee down a steep embankment and escape. Malcolm is injured distracting the T-Rex but survives the attack. A fleeing Nedry crashes his Jeep. While he is tying the Jeep's winch around a tree, he encounters a Dilophosaurus, which he ignores due to its small size. As he returns to the Jeep, the creature spits venom at him, blinding him. Nedry drops the stolen embryos and gets into the Jeep, but the Dilophosaurus gets inside and kills him. Sattler and Muldoon search for survivors of the Tyrannosaurus attack, but only find Malcolm and the remains of Gennaro. As they look for the children, Malcolm realizes the Tyrannosaurus is returning. He orders Sattler and Muldoon to flee, with the Tyrannosaurus pursuing. The three of them escape in their Jeep. Grant and the children climb up a tree to avoid the Tyrannosaurus, and see a family of Brachiosaurus eating at which point Dr Grant attempts to emmulate their call to no avail and so the three fall asleep. In the morning Dr Grant wakes up and is surprised to see a Brachiosaurus eating from the tree they are sleeping in and thus wakes up the kids, much to Lex surprise at seeing the dinosaur. Asking if it eats meat Dr Grant replies it doesn't and so the three attempt to feed the creature, getting it closer with a branch Dr Grant touches the dinosaur but when Lex tries it steps back and sneezes on her before departing. Meanwhile unable to decipher Dennis's code to reactivate the security fences, Hammond, Arnold, Muldoon, Malcolm and Sattler take the drastic measure of rebooting the entire park's computer and electrical network. The five shut down the park's grid and retreat to an emergency bunker, and Arnold journeys to a maintenance bunker to complete the process of rebooting the system. When he does not return, Sattler and Muldoon decide to head for the bunker. Grant and the children discover a nest full of hatched eggs, indicating the dinosaurs are breeding despite having been bred as females. As Muldoon and Sattler proceed to the maintenance bunker, Muldoon notices that they are being hunted by Velociraptors. Muldoon offers to draw their attention while Sattler continues to the bunker. Sattler restarts the park's systems, but is attacked by a raptor hidden within some cables; she discovers Arnold's severed arm and narrowly escapes the raptor. Muldoon is about to shoot a raptor, but another raptor appears and kills him. Tim, Lex and Grant climb an electrified fence out of the park's animal zone and Tim is nearly killed when the fence is reactivated. Grant and the children head for the visitor's center; he leaves them alone in the kitchen while he reunites with Sattler and the others. The kids escape two stalking raptors before reuniting with Grant and Sattler. Lex restores the park's security systems from the control room. Grant contacts Hammond and tells him to call the mainland for rescue before the two raptors find the group and attack. The group flees through a series of air ducts, only to be cornered in the entrance hall by the raptors. The Tyrannosaurus breaks into the main hall and attacks the raptors, allowing the four to flee outside, where they are rescued by Malcolm and Hammond. The survivors board a helicopter. Grant and Sattler watch a small flock of pelicans fly over the sea as they depart.