Eric Kirby and Ben Hildebrand, go parasailing off the restricted coast of Isla Sorna. The men piloting their boat goes missing, causing the boat to crash and the parasail to glide towards the island. Alan Grant and Ellie Sattler remained close since their incident at Isla Nublar but never married, with Sattler having married a lawyer named Mark Degler. After dinner, Grant tells Sattler that recent research indicates that Velociraptors were far more intelligent than previously perceived. At Grant's excavation site at Fort Peck Lake, Montana, Grant's graduate school assistant Billy Brennan reveals a replica of a Velociraptor's larynx created from scanning a raptor skull. Grant is approached by Paul and Amanda Kirby, owners of a corporation called Kirby Enterprises. They inform Grant that they wish to hire him to give them an aerial tour of Isla Sorna. He initially refuses, but is persuaded by their offer to fund his excavation. The plane carrying Grant, Billy, the Kirbys, Nash, Udesky and Cooper arrives at Isla Sorna. Grant objects when he learns the team intends to land on the island, but is knocked unconscious by the mercenary Cooper. Grant regains consciousness when he hears Amanda use a megaphone to call out to somebody in the jungle, which draws the attention of a Spinosaurus. The mercenaries usher the group onto the plane. The plane starts down the runway, but Cooper appears, drawing the Spinosaurus into the plane's path and devouring Cooper. The plane's propellor gets damaged on the Spinosaurus's sail and it crashes in a tree. The Spinosaurus attacks the plane, Nash slips and falls into the mouth of the Spinosaurus and is eaten alive. The plane falls from the tree and the Spinosaurus rolls it around. The group flees. They encounter a Tyrannosaurus, which chases them back to the Spinosaurus. The Tyrannosaurus and Spinosaurus fight until the Spinosaurus snaps the Tyrannosaurus neck, replacing it as king of the dinosaurs. The group flees the site. Grant learns that the Kirbys are actually a divorced couple and owners of a small business. They are in search of their son Eric, who was stranded on the island along with Amanda's friend Ben Hildebrand eight weeks earlier. The group heads towards the coast, hoping to be rescued. They discover a parasail with Ben's corpse and a video camera containing footage from their crash. The group comes across a derelict InGen laboratory. After exploring the compound, they are attacked by a Velociraptor, which calls to its pack for assistance. Outside, Paul, Amanda, and Billy lose Grant and Udesky. Udesky is trying to find the group only to be killed by a Velociraptor . Grant is surrounded by a Velociraptor pack but is rescued by Eric who uses tear gas on them. The group reunites after Eric hears the ringtone of his father's satellite phone, which emanated from within the Spinosaurus that had attacked them at the runway. Grant discovers that Billy stole two eggs from a Velociraptor nest, intending to use revenue from them to fund the excavation. Grant berates Billy as being no better than InGen. Grant decides to store the eggs in his bag instead, reasoning that they could bargain with the Velociraptors for the eggs, in exchange for their lives. The group sets out for a boat docked at a nearby river. They pass through a Pteranodon's cage. Billy rescues Eric from the pterasaurs, but is viciously attacked and presumed dead. The group escapes onto a boat and while navigating down the river, the phone is heard from within Spinosaurus's excrement and is recovered. While Grant is calling Ellie for assistance, the Spinosaurus attacks them again. As the boat is capsizing, Grant is only able to get out the words, "The river! Site B!". Paul and Grant manage to drive away the Spinosaurus, but are unsure if Ellie will be able to send help. The group is close to shore, when they are confronted by Velociraptors. Grant delivers the eggs and uses Billy's Velociraptor resonating chamber to communicate. On the beach, U.S. Marine helicopters and infantry arrive, scaring off the Velociraptors. The party boards the helicopter where they are reunited with Billy, who is still alive but seriously injured. As they depart, three Pteranodons fly off into the distance.