Naina Catherine Kapur  is an angry young girl living in New York City. Her father committed suicide when she was young, leaving her mother Jennifer Kapur  alone with her and her two younger children, Shiv  and Gia . The restaurant that Jennifer operates is also financially faltering. Furthermore, Naina's paternal grandmother, Lajjo , blames Jennifer for the suicide and refuses to accept Gia  as her granddaughter, blaming her for bringing bad luck to the family. The only bright spot in Naina's life is her bumbling MBA classmate Rohit Patel . Meanwhile, Aman Mathur  shifts to Naina's neighbourhood. Noticing the sadness of his new neighbours, he intervenes. His well-meaning interference in their activities, his help in reviving their financial standing, and his general optimism soon change their lives for the better. Although Naina is initially reluctant to enjoy Aman's presence, she grows to like him and eventually falls in love with him. Also, Rohit, who has been in love with Naina, is too scared to ask her out. On Aman's encouragement, he calls Naina for lunch where she reveals to Rohit about her love for Aman. Heartbroken, Rohit informs Aman about this. Naina goes to Aman's house to ask him out where Aman lies to her that he is married to a woman named Priya . Aman, it is revealed, is dying of a severe condition that is progressively weakening his heart. Also, Priya is not his wife, but his doctor. Knowing that his lifespan is limited, he sacrifices his love for Naina and plays matchmaker between Rohit and her. The tension within Naina's family also stops when Aman, after accidentally intercepting a personal letter addressed to Jennifer, reveals that Gia is Naina's half-sister through their father's extramarital affair. Jennifer's acceptance of her husband's infidelity is what led to his suicide. Lajjo finally accepts Gia, and the now-united family prepares for Rohit and Naina's wedding. Meanwhile, Aman's health deteriorates. Naina, in a chance-encounter meets Priya and learns the truth about Aman's health condition. When she approaches and accuses Aman, he convinces her to get married to Rohit, as he knew that Rohit loved her. She accepts and gets married to Rohit. After attending the marriage, Aman passes away. Twenty years later, an older Naina relates the story of Aman's love to a grown-up Gia and how she has, and always loved him. It is also revealed that Naina and Rohit have a daughter of their own. Naina ends her story by saying that while every wife dreams of finding a friend in her husband, she was lucky to find a husband in her friend.