It is 25 September 1944, during the last days of the Warsaw Uprising. Lieutenant Zadra leads a unit of 43 soldiers and civilians to a new position amidst the ruins of the Mokotów district. The composer Michal manages to telephone his wife and child in the German-controlled portion of the city. After a few words, she tells him that the Germans are clearing the building and that they are coming for her. Then the line goes dead. The next morning, 23-year-old Officer Cadet Korab apologizes after walking into a room to find the second in command, Lieutenant Madry, and messenger girl Halinka in bed.  A German attack is beaten off, but Korab is wounded. Surrounded by the enemy, Zadra is ordered to retreat through the sewers to the downtown district. Now down to 27 fit to travel, including Korab, they slog through the filth. Daisy, their guide, asks Zadra to let her help Korab, claiming that the others can find their way easily enough. Zadra allows it. However, the pair fall further and further behind. When they reach the right turnoff, Korab is too weak to climb the upward sloping tunnel, so they rest for a while. He notices some graffiti on the opposite wall, but cannot quite make it out. Daisy tells him it says "I love Janek", when the name is actually Jacek, Korab's first name. Afterward, she drives him on, not letting him stop. They proceed in a less taxing direction. Finally, they see sunlight. By this time, Korab is half blind and at the end of his strength. He cannot see that the exit is closed off by metal bars. Daisy finally reveals her feelings for him, kissing him before telling him that he can rest for a while. The main group follows Zadra for a while, but they become lost without Daisy. Finally, when Zadra tells Sergeant Kula to order them onward after a brief rest, they remain where they are. Kula lies and tells Zadra they are following in order to get him to keep going. Meanwhile, Madry, Halinka and Michal are also on their own. Eventually, Michal loses his mind and wanders away, playing an ocarina. Upon reaching a dead end, Madry cries out that he has somebody to live for; when Halinka asks who, he tells her he has a wife and child. She asks him to turn off his flashlight, then shoots herself. Madry finds an exit, but when he emerges, he joins the rest of his unit as German captives. Despondent, he kneels beside the bodies of others who have apparently been executed. Zadra, Kula and a third man find another exit, but it is booby trapped. The other man disarms two German grenades, but is killed by the third and last. Zadra and Kula find themselves in a deserted part of the city. When Zadra tells Kula to bring up the rest of the men, Kula admits he lied. Enraged, Zadra shoots him and reluctantly heads back down for a futile search for his men.