In twelfth century Europe, Philippe Gaston, "The Mouse" , is a thief facing execution who escapes the dungeons of Aquila, via the sewers, and flees to the countryside. The Bishop of Aquila  sends his Captain of the Guard Marquet  to hunt down Phillipe; he and his soldiers corner Philippe, but are foiled by a mysterious black knight who reveals himself to be their former Captain, Etienne of Navarre , traveling with a beautiful and devoted hawk. Marquet warns the Bishop of Navarre's return, and the Bishop summons Cezar  the wolf trapper. Navarre tells Philippe why he saved him: he needs Philippe's unique knowledge to lead him inside Aquila to kill the Bishop. As they travel Philippe becomes aware of mysterious events surrounding them, including the appearance at night of a black wolf and a beautiful woman , who is unafraid of the wolf. Navarre and the hawk are wounded in another encounter with the Bishop's men; Navarre sends the hawk with Philippe to the old monk Imperius , to heal her. At a ruined castle Philippe finally realizes the truth, which Imperius confirms: the hawk is a woman named Isabeau d'Anjou, who came to live in Aquila after her father—the Count of Anjou—died. All who saw her fell in love with her, including the Bishop. But Isabeau was already in love with Etienne, with whom she secretly exchanged vows. Accidentally betrayed by their confessor, Imperius, they fled. In his insane jealousy the Bishop made a demonic pact to ensure they would be "Always together; eternally apart": by day Isabeau becomes a hawk, by night Navarre becomes a wolf. Neither has any memory of their half-life in animal form; only at dusk and dawn of each day can they see each other in human form for one fleeting moment, but can never touch. In despair Navarre plans to kill the Bishop or die in the attempt, making the curse irrevocable. But Imperius has discovered a way to break the curse; in three days, a solar eclipse will create "a day without a night and a night without a day": when the lovers stand together in human form before the Bishop, the curse will be broken.