Teenage orphan Calvin Cambridge  manages to get tickets to a home game for the struggling Los Angeles Knights from the team's coach. The next day, Calvin obtains a pair of old Nike Blazers sneakers from a Salvation Army thrift store that had reportedly been used by a great basketball player, when he was a boy. The shoes have the initials MJ written on them, Calvin thinks they used to belong to Michael Jordan. Calvin's new sneakers are then taken by a bully called Ox, who throws them onto an overhead power line. Calvin tries to retrieve them the same night in a rainstorm, so as to get it when Ox is not around, and when retrieving the sneakers gets hit by a lightning bolt. The next day, Calvin and his friends go to the basketball game between the Knights and the Minnesota Timberwolves with the free tickets. Calvin gets randomly picked to go one-on-one with Knights star Tracy Reynolds in a halftime contest. The shoes apparently give Calvin superstar caliber talent as he wins the contest with a dunk and is signed to a one-day contract by the Knights. After coming off the bench and using his shoes to help the Knight to a late victory against the San Antonio Spurs, Calvin earns a place on the team. Reynolds becomes his mentor through the NBA's mentoring program, as Calvin is a minor. Calvin brings teamwork to the struggling Knights and makes them one of the best teams in the league, traveling around the country and becoming a media star in the process. Calvin also wins the slam dunk contest, after which Tracy gradually respects Calvin. Meanwhile, Stan Bittleman, the greedy  head of the orphanage Calvin lives in signs a contract with the team, to cash in all of Calvin's money until he's eighteen, or adopted. When the latter is about to become true, Bittleman steals Calvin's shoes and bets $100,000 against the Knights losing the next game. With the help of Ox and his friends, Calvin subdues the orphanage director and becomes friends with Ox. Ox helps Calvin retrieve his shoes out of Bittleman's safe and they escape from Bittleman and his goons. Calvin then helps the Knights rally back from a late deficit against the Toronto Raptors and even when the shoes are damaged and no longer work, his pass to Reynolds seals the win and earns the Knights their first playoff berth. After going back to his orphanage, Calvin and his friend Murph get adopted by Tracy and his other friend Reg by a different family but they still keep in touch. It is also revealed that Bittleman is missing because he doesn't have enough money to pay the bet and the Orphanage is now sponsored by the Knights.