Dede Tate  is a single mother, a working-class woman of average intelligence raising her seven-year-old son, Fred , who shows every indication of being a genius. Fred's reading and mathematics abilities are remarkable, and he plays the piano "at competition level," but his intellect isolates him from his public school classmates. Fred's intellect comes to the attention of Jane Grierson , a former music prodigy and now a psychologist running a school for gifted children. She seeks permission from Dede to admit Fred to the school in order to develop his intellectual gifts in a way that a public school cannot. Dede is reluctant, preferring that Fred have a normal upbringing but when no one comes to Fred's seventh birthday party, Dede consents. Fred fits in better at the institute, and he meets one of his heroes who is one of Jane's prized pupils, the brilliant but slightly bizarre "Mathemagician" Damon Wells , a whiz at math who wears a black cape wherever he goes. After unintentionally upstaging Damon at a competition for gifted youth, Fred is enrolled at a university where he studies quantum physics while his mother and her sister and cousins travel to Florida for the summer. Jane attempts to become more nurturing, but is unable to relate to Fred as anything other than a case study. Fred meets Eddie , a student in his 20s, but their relationship sours after Eddie tells him that their age difference is too great for them to be friends. Fred's isolation wears on him and he begins to experience nightmares and disturbing images. Jane is asked to bring Fred onto a panel discussion show on the topic of gifted children, but Fred breaks down. He claims his mother is dead, and recites a childish poem  before taking off his microphone and walking out of the studio. Dede witnesses some of this as it is broadcast and flies back to New York. Jane is unable to find Fred, but Dede discovers him back at their apartment and embraces him. One year later, Fred has adjusted to the pressures of being a child genius, particularly after an even younger student is admitted to Jane's school. Dede hosts a well attended birthday party for him, reconciling Fred's emotional development with his intellect.