The film picks up in between the events of Mollie and James saving baby Mikey from almost being hit by a car, and him going into the hospital with James to see his new baby sister. It opens with Mollie and James preparing to have sex, with him ensuring her. Mikey gets scared and calls James into the room. He goes to check on him and returns to Mollie. Although she fell asleep, he gets her back in the mood and they continue. The film cuts to his sperm cells traveling toward her egg; however, it teases them since the diaphragm is blocking them from getting it. One manages to get around it, and a baby girl is conceived. They tell Mikey that he's got to be potty-trained. Mollie discovers she's pregnant and James is working diligently. Mikey learns that with his new baby sister on the way, he has to be a responsible big brother. When she is about to be born, her umbilical cord gets caught around her neck, putting her in distress. She is born through a C-section and is taken to the nursery. She is named Julie. When she and Mikey meet, he says hello, and she asks, "Who's this asshole?" He gets jealous of her immediately. One day, Mikey and his playmate, Eddie, try to walk off with her stroller and decide to ditch her at the zoo. Mollie stops the boys and when she does, she catches them with a crack pipe . She and James fight about her brother Stuart staying there which leads to her kicking James out. Stuart soon develops a romance with her best friend Rona and they even start dating. Mikey is upset about James being gone and out of anger, he tears up one of Julie's favorite stuffed penguins . James occasionally hangs out with his kids  and has fun with them. Meanwhile, Mikey is having trouble using a potty so he gets some advice from Eddie, who's already potty trained. However, he warns him about Mr. Toilet Man, who's actually just a figment of their imaginations. One day, Julie sees Herbert's head and decides to learn to walk and leave. She manages to walk without support. Mollie sees this, gets excited, and calls James and Stuart. If you listen carefully, you'll hear the Tri-Star Pictures theme while she is walking. Mikey realizes one night that he hasn't been very nice to her and decides to try to do so. Mollie realizes that she needs James to help her. She dresses up in an attempt to get back together with him. A few days later, Mikey uses the toilet and calls his parents, who are immensely proud of him. Mollie exclaims that she hasn't felt that happy about him since he was born. One night, Mollie watches the news and learns that storms are all around the area. She goes to get to James before he takes off, leaving Stuart with Mikey and Julie. At some point in time, a burglar breaks in and runs when he comes in with his unloaded gun. He is completely oblivious to the fact that he left an oven mitt on the hot stove, causing it to catch on fire. It falls off the stove onto some newspapers, causing a bigger fire. Mikey and Julie panic. He pushes her out of the apartment and saves them both. Mollie and James catch up with Stuart and ask where Mikey and Julie are. The couple see the smoke in the apartment and run in to retrieve them, just to find the two kids arriving in the elevator. James runs in, gets the fire extinguisher, and puts out the fire. The police arrive soon afterwards and arrest the thief. Rona arrives and once she hears about how Stuart helped save the day, she falls deeper in love with him. She asks him to marry her and he agrees. The next day, James, Mollie, and her parents talk, while Mikey explains to Julie why he saved her from the fire and they start to get along.