The story describes an encounter between a Parisian tailor named Maurice Courtelin  and a family of local aristocrats. These include Viscount Gilbert de Varèze , who owes Maurice a large amount of money for tailoring work; Gilbert's uncle Duke d'Artelines , the family patriarch; d'Artelines' man-hungry niece Valentine ; and his other 22-year-old niece, Princess Jeanette , who has been a widow for three years. D'Artelines has been unable to find Jeanette a new husband of suitable age and rank. House hold also includes three aunts and an ineffectual suitor Count de Savignac . Maurice custom-tailors clothing for de Varèze on credit, but the Viscount's unpaid tailoring bills become intolerable, so Maurice travels to de Savignac's castle to collect the money owed to him. On the way, he has a confrontation with Princess Jeanette. He immediately professes his love for her, but she haughtily rejects him. When Maurice arrives at the castle, Gilbert introduces him as "Baron Courtelin" in order to hide the truth from the Count. Maurice is fearful of this scheme at first, but changes his mind when he sees Jeanette. While staying at the castle, he arouses Valentine's desire, charms the rest of the family except for Jeanette, saves a deer's life during a hunt, and continues to woo Jeanette. The Count de Savignac discovers that Maurice is a fake, but the Viscount then claims that Maurice is a royal who is traveling incognito for security reasons. Finally, Jeanette succumbs to Maurice's charms, telling him "Whoever you are, whatever you are, wherever you are, I love you." When Maurice criticizes Jeanette's tailor, the family confronts him for his rudeness, only to catch him and Jeanette alone with Jeanette partially undressed. Maurice explains that he is redesigning Jeanette's riding outfit, and he proves this by successfully altering it, but in the process he is forced to reveal his true identity. Despite her earlier promise, Jeanette recoils from him and runs to her room on hearing that he is a commoner. The entire household is outraged, and Maurice leaves. However, as a train carries him back to Paris, Jeanette struggles with her fears, finally realizes her mistake, and catches up to the train on horseback. When the engineer refuses to stop the train, she rides ahead and stands on the track. The train stops, Maurice jumps out, and the two lovers embrace as steam from the train envelops them.