Jeff Peters  is an emotionally repressed scientist who can't stand others because of their intellectual inferiority. He dreams of deep space exploration, which would be difficult because of the lack of human contact for long periods of time. He develops the Ulysses android  for the purpose of space exploration, since an android would not be affected by the isolation. Frankie Stone  is hired to do public relations for the project. As a part of her job, she must get to know the android better, in order to "humanize" him for the benefit of the project's sponsors in Congress. However, in his interaction with her, the android develops emotions and develops better social skills than the scientist himself. At one point he impersonates Jeff in order to leave the laboratory, and stows away in Frankie's car. After escaping he encounters human society at a shopping mall, buys a tuxedo, goes on a date with a woman who thinks he is Jeff, reducing her to an emotional wreck, and then loses his head  over Frankie's best friend Trish  who has taken refuge in Frankie's apartment after walking out on her husband. Frankie also develops feelings for the android and befriends Jeff on a lesser level. Frankie's mother,  having seen Ulysses, assumes he is Frankie's boyfriend and expects Frankie to bring him to the wedding of Frankie's sister. Frankie persuades Jeff to impersonate Ulysses, but Ulysses again absconds from the lab and gate-crashes the wedding. While dancing Ulysses short-circuits and crashes into the swimming pool, turning the occasion into a public relations disaster. Frankie is fired from her job and forbidden contact with Ulysses or anyone on the project. She attempts to say goodbye on launch day by using her connections with a former client and boyfriend, a candidate for Congress, but she only sees Ulysses during his farewell speech, in which he bemoans the tendency of humans and their tragic emotional relationships. Eventually, it becomes clear that Ulysses' final speech was actually made by Jeff, who has realized he cannot deal with people. Due to his lack of social skills, Jeff realizes that the lack of human contact will not be a hardship for him. Jeff decided to go into space while the android takes his place on Earth so Ulysses and Frankie  can be together.