Because of the extremely high rate of kidnappings in Mexico City for ransom money, businessman Samuel Ramos  hires former Marine Force Recon officer and CIA operative John Creasy  to guard his nine-year-old daughter "Pita" . At first Creasy distances himself socially from Pita, but the two develop a friendship. After a piano lesson, Pita is abducted in public and Creasy is shot multiple times. The Ramoses agree to deliver a dead drop ransom of US$10 million per the instructions of "The Voice" , the mastermind of the kidnapping ring. The drop, however, is ambushed by members of a Mexican crime syndicate and the money is stolen, resulting in The Voice notifying the Ramoses that Pita will not be returned. Upon hearing the news, Creasy leaves the hospital before fully recovering from his wounds and vows to Pita's mother Lisa  that he will kill everyone involved in her abduction. His friend of his CIA days, Paul Rayburn , who runs a security firm in Mexico, hands him weapons in his quest for revenge. With the help of Mariana Guerrero , a journalist, and Miguel Manzano  of the AFI Creasy begins hunting down and killing those involved in Pita's abduction with great success. Each person leads him to the next by providing vital information. He eventually learns that Samuel's attorney, Jordan Kalfus  stole $7.5 million before the ransom money was sent to the drop. Samuel confesses to Creasy that he agreed to Kalfus' plan for Pita's kidnapping to pay off business debts with his share of the insurance money. He also confesses that when Pita was not returned, he killed Kalfus. Samuel then commits suicide. After some digging, Mariana writes an article revealing The Voice's identity as Daniel Sánchez. Creasy shows up to Daniel's ex-wife's house and is shot by his brother Aurelio , who then tries unsuccessfully to escape. Creasy calls Daniel, who reveals that Pita is still alive and offers to free her if Creasy surrenders himself with Aurelio. Creasy agrees and he and Lisa meet at the exchange site where the kidnappers release Pita as Creasy releases Aurelio. Creasy then surrenders himself and is driven away by the kidnappers and succumbs to his wounds. Daniel Sánchez is killed by Miguel Manzano during a police raid later that same day.