The backdrop for Meet Me in St. Louis is St. Louis, Missouri on the brink of the 1904 World's Fair. The Smith family lead a comfortable middle-class life. Mr. Alonzo Smith  and Mrs. Anna Smith  have four daughters: Rose , Esther, Agnes, and Tootie; and a son, Lon Jr.  Esther, the second eldest daughter , is in love with the boy next door, John Truett , although he does not notice her at first. Rose is expecting a phone call in which she hopes to be proposed to by Warren Sheffield . Esther finally gets to meet John properly when he is a guest at the Smiths' house party, although her chances of romancing him don't go to plan when, after all the guests are gone and he is helping her turn off the gas lamps throughout the house, he tells her she uses the same perfume as his grandmother and that she has "a mighty strong grip for a girl". On Halloween, Tootie  returns home injured, claiming that John Truett attacked her. Without bothering to investigate, Esther confronts John, physically attacking him and scolding him for being a "bully". When Esther returns home, Tootie confesses that what really happened was that John was trying to protect Tootie and Agnes  from the police after a dangerous prank they pulled went wrong. Upon learning the truth, Esther immediately dashes to John's house next door to apologize, and they share their first kiss. Mr. Smith announces to the family that he is to be sent to New York on business and eventually they will all move. The family is devastated and upset at the news of the move, especially Rose and Esther whose romances, friendships, and educational plans are threatened. Esther is also aghast because they will miss the World's Fair. An elegant ball takes place on Christmas Eve. Esther is devastated when John cannot take her as his date, due to his leaving his tuxedo at the tailor's and being unable to get it back. But she is relieved when her grandfather  offers to take her instead. At the ball, Esther fills up a visiting girl's  dance card with losers because she thinks Lucille is a rival of Rose's. But when Lucille turns out to be interested in Lon, Esther switches her dance card with Lucille's and instead dances herself with the clumsy and awkward partners. After being rescued by Grandpa, she is overwhelmed when John unexpectedly turns up after somehow managing to obtain a tuxedo, and the pair dance together for the rest of the evening. Later on, John proposes to Esther and she accepts. Esther returns home to an upset Tootie. She is soothed by the poignant "Have Yourself a Merry Little Christmas." Tootie, however, does become more upset at the prospect of the family's move and runs downstairs, out into the cold to destroy the snowmen they have made. Mr. Smith sees his daughter's upsetting outburst from an upstairs window. Mr. Smith later announces that the family will not leave St. Louis after all when he realises how much the move will affect his family. Warren boldly declares his love for Rose, stating that they will marry at the first possible opportunity. And all of the family finally are able to attend the World's Fair. The film ends at night with the entire family  overlooking the Grand Lagoon at the center of the World's Fair just as thousands of lights illuminate the grand pavilions.