In 1997, Agent K  is a member of the Men in Black , a secret agency without ties to any government, whose goal is to maintain Earth as a "neutral zone" for extraterrestrial aliens, whom they disguise as humans around New York City. The agency maintains its secrecy by using a neuralyzer to wipe the memories of those that encounter either them or the aliens, and also the memories of former agents when they retire. Operating from an underground base at a Triborough Bridge and Tunnel Authority ventilation station, they fund themselves by obtaining patents on alien technologies released for consumer consumption. K's former partner D  has just retired after an incident at a border line between the U.S and Mexico where an alien disguised as a human almost killed an INS Officer, so K is forced to find a new partner. Agent Zed , the Agency's current leader, suggests that he should find a new recruit, someone "fresh". Meanwhile, James Darrell Edwards III  is a rookie police officer who is pursuing a man through the streets of Manhattan. He chases the suspect on foot with his mentor officers, but due to their weight, he is forced to apprehend him alone. Edwards is surprised as the man has the ability to jump and climb very high. After some chase, he manages to corner him on the roof. The man smiles at Edwards and blinks very unusually , as he falls down to his death. Edwards describes the chase to his supervisor, but the supervisor doesn't believe his explanation. Just then, K arrives at the office and neuralyzes the supervisor, the two cops, and Edwards. Later, K talks to Edwards and offers him a "new life", gives him the MIB address, and tells him to go to the address the next day. In the base, after Edwards completes several double-meaning tests in unconventional ways , K offers him the chance to join the MIB. Edwards' identity is erased, and he becomes Agent J, K's partner. K initiates J into the MIB but during this, they learn that numerous alien refugees are fleeing the Earth. MIB is contacted by an Arquillian fleet in Earth orbit; the fleet warns that a "Bug", a member of a giant cockroach-like species that are at war with several alien races, has come to Earth searching for an object known as the Galaxy. Its infinite power could turn the tide of war in favor of the Bugs. To prevent this they are, though, regretfully willing to destroy the Earth unless the MIB can secure the Galaxy before their deadline, only hours away. Agent K and Agent J find the Bug is disguised using the skin of farmer Edgar  after killing the human. It already killed two Arquillians it believed had the Galaxy. The two bodies, along with a cat that refuses to leave its owner, Rosenberg, are taken to the city morgue. There, Dr. Laurel Weaver  discovers one of the tiny Arquillians is barely alive inside its human looking robot; struggling with English, it whispers to her, "To prevent war, the Galaxy is on Orion's belt," before it expires. K and J arrive to help remove the alien bodies and wipe Laurel's mind, but not before learning about this message, and Laurel suffers a déjà vu when she spots J.  They return to the base, where Zed explains that there are no galaxies on Orion's belt. Agent K, still suspicious about J's words, goes to Frank the Pug , a Remoonian talking dog, who explains to K that the galaxy doesn't have to be in space and enormous to actually be a galaxy. Suspicious about this, J and K head to the jewelry store Rosenberg owned. They find the store broken in, but it's empty. Noticing the Bug, they proceed to chase and lose it. They then look at the picture of Rosenberg and his cat and realize that Orion refers to Rosenberg's pet and that the belt would mean the cat's collar. Racing back to the morgue, they encounter the Bug, who has figured out the same thing. It steals the Galaxy, which hangs in a small charm, and kidnaps Laurel - escaping while the MIB secure its spacecraft to prevent it from leaving the planet. As the Arquillian deadline looms, the MIB tries to figure out how Edgar will leave. J then recalls from his initial briefing that the observation towers of the New York State Pavilion at Flushing Meadows are disguised spacecraft. Agents K and J race there, finding Edgar climbing one of the structures. Their arrival distracts the Bug but it enters the craft and starts the engines. The agents fire on the ship, forcing it to crash. As the two face off against Edgar, it rips through its disguise, swallows their guns and knocks them across the field. K tells J to keep the Bug from getting to the second ship by creating a distraction. K goads the Bug to eat him, which it does by swallowing him whole. J keeps the Bug distracted by stepping on cockroaches around a nearby dumpster. Before J can be eaten by the enraged Bug, he tells it to get out of his face before something bad happens. K, having found his gun in the Bug's stomach, then blasts his way out, ripping the alien in half. K is slime covered but safe and J picks up the Galaxy from among the contents of Edgar's stomach. The news is then relayed to the Arquillian fleet, saving the Earth. While J and K are recovering from their battle, the top-half of the Bug suddenly rears up behind them, but Laurel shoots the Bug with J's gun, which was ejected from the Bug's stomach. As MIB cleans up the situation, and K apparently prepares to neuralyze Laurel, he admits that he was not training J as a partner but as his replacement, as he is ready to retire from the agency, thinking about the words D said to him. K gives him the neuralyzer and explains the device, showing the 4 buttons, with one as the activator, the three others being "Days, Months, Years". He also tells J "I'll see you around", to which J responds; "No, you won't.", and neuralyzes him. In the epilogue, Laurel is Agent J's new partner Agent L, while K  has returned to civilian life and the woman he left behind , and J and L began to investigate more aliens disguised as humans as they drive away to the headquarters. As the camera pans out, showing the Earth, solar system and eventually the galaxy, it is revealed that the galaxy is itself in a marble. A pair of alien hands finish playing with it and place it inside a sack with other such galaxies .