In 2002, five years after Men in Black, Agent J  is now the top operative for the MIB, the self-funded New York City-based agency that secretly monitors and regulates extraterrestrials' activity on Earth. J is largely without a partner, after Agent L  decided to return to her former life working in a morgue. Since then, subsequent partners have not lived up to J's professional standards. While investigating a seemingly routine crime at a SoHo pizzeria, J uncovers a diabolical plot by Serleena, a shapeshifting Kylothian Queen who has arrived to Earth after destroying several planets and disguises hisself as a lingerie model , but resembles a plant-like hydra in her own form. The neuralyzed Agent K  has assumed civilian life as Kevin Brown, postmaster of Truro in Massachusetts, and to stop her, J must convince Kevin to rejoin MIB, because he is the only operative still alive who knows how to find what Serleena wants, the "Light of Zartha". It also turned out that the planets that Serleena destroyed were the previous places she looked for the Light. While J tries to deneuralyze Kevin, Serleena breaks into MIB resulting in a lock down; J and Kevin escape after being flushed from the building. J then takes Kevin to Jack Jeebs , who built an unofficial deneuralyzer. Although K eventually regains some of his memory, he still has no recollection of the "Light of Zartha"  but left himself a series of clues in case he needed to remember. The clues eventually lead to a videostore where they watch a tape that jars K's memory: 25 years ago, the Zarthan Queen Laurana arrived on Earth to try to hide the Light of Zartha, but the MIB refused to help due to their neutrality. Serleena arrived to steal the Light, but K activated the Zarthan ship and sent it away. Serleena, believing the Light is on board the ship, chased the ship, but not before fatally shooting Laurana. K then reveals that the ship was a decoy, and that the Light is still hidden on Earth. Meanwhile, Serleena frees all of the MIB's high-security prisoners and uses them as henchmen. Believing that the Light is in the bracelet worn by Laura Vasquez , a waitress at the pizzeria, Serleena kidnaps Laura and prepares to send her back to her homeworld. K and J, with the help of the "worm guys", assault MIB headquarters, defeat Serleena's henchmen, and rescue Laura. However, K warns them that if the Light is not taken off Earth and returned to Zartha, it will explode and destroy the planet. As they make their way to the departure point by flying in J's car that can turn into a ship, Serleena gives chase but is eaten by Jeff, a giant alien worm living in the New York subway system. When they reach the departure point, K reveals that Laura is Laurana's daughter and the actual Light of Zartha . To save Earth and Zartha, Laura reluctantly leaves Earth, much to J's dismay, as he had developed feelings for her. Serleena returns to try to capture Laura again, having apparently assimilated Jeff into herself before killing him. Fortunately, K and J manage to destroy her for good, allowing Laura to escape to her homeworld. To cover up the chaos caused by Serleena's rampage, K activates a giant neuralyzer hidden in the Statue of Liberty's torch. Now that Laura is gone, K and Agent Zed , the head of MIB, try to console J for his loss, but he answers that he needs no consolation and had accepted her departure without much sorrow. To provide a measure of comfort, K puts the aliens that were found in a Grand Central Terminal locker  into J's locker. After J suggests showing those aliens that their world is bigger than a locker, K shows him and Frank  that they themselves are a species kept in a locker in an alien station, in contrast to their rookie worldview.