Tom Reagan  is the long-time confidant of Leo O'Bannon , an Irish American political boss who runs a Prohibition-era city. When Leo's Italian up-and-coming rival Johnny Caspar  announces his intentions to kill bookie Bernie Bernbaum , Leo goes against Tom's advice and extends his protection to Bernie. Bernie is the brother of Verna Bernbaum , an opportunistic gun moll who has begun a relationship with Leo while having a long-term secret affair with Tom. Leo and Caspar go to war as a consequence. Tom tries everything he can to convince Leo to give Bernie up to Caspar to end the war; he attempts to convince Leo that Verna is playing him to protect her brother, but Leo will not be swayed. After an assassination attempt on Leo, Tom reveals his affair with Verna to Leo to prove that she is dishonest, causing Leo to beat Tom up and turn his back on both. Tom then appears to change sides and goes to work for the ascendant Caspar. He is immediately commanded to kill Bernie at Miller's Crossing to prove his loyalty. Bernie pleads with Tom to spare him, and Tom allows him to escape. The war goes well for Caspar and he assumes Leo's position as boss of the city. However, Tom begins sowing discord between Caspar and his most trusted enforcer, Eddie Dane . At the same time, Bernie returns and tries to blackmail Tom into killing Caspar. Tom's machinations convince Caspar to kill Eddie Dane. Tom then arranges a meeting with Bernie, but sends Caspar instead. Bernie gets the jump on Caspar and kills him. Tom arrives and tricks Bernie into giving up his gun, saying they could blame Eddie Dane, then reveals his intention to kill Bernie. Bernie once again begs for mercy, saying "Look into your heart", but Tom shoots him. With Caspar and Eddie Dane dead, Leo resumes his post as top boss. Verna has also won her way back into Leo's good graces, but she reacts coldly to Tom. On the day Bernie is being buried, Leo announces that Verna has proposed to him, and offers Tom his old job back. Tom refuses, and he remains behind and watches Leo leave.