Set against the backdrop of the Cold War early 1980s prior to the perestroika years of the later 80s, Vladimir Ivanov , a saxophonist with the Moscow circus, lives in a crowded apartment with his extended family. He sucks up to the apparatchik assigned to the circus, standing in line for hours to buy shoes to obtain his favor. He cruises the streets, scrounging for black market gasoline for his friend's car. He buffers between his crazy grandfather and the KGB, who want to arrest him for shouting anti-Soviet slogans out the window. As a rare treat, the circus troupe is sent to perform in New York City. Ivanov's clown friend, Anatoly , who has talked of little else but defecting, is intimidated into canceling his plan, and Vladimir, who had opposed the scheme as reckless and foolhardy suddenly decides to do it. He runs from his Soviet controllers, and hides behind a perfume counter at Bloomingdale's, where he originally met the clerk, Lucia Lomardo . When local police arrive, Ivanov stands up to his controllers and defects in what later becomes a newsworthy spectacle. With the help of sympathetic Orlando Ramirez , a naturalized citizen from Cuba and attorney who witnessed Ivanov's defection, Ivanov tries adapting to living in America. Ivanov attempts to find work despite speaking very little English and fearing the threat of his former countrymen. Aside from living in poor neighborhoods and taking low-paying jobs, he becomes friends with Lionel Witherspoon , a security guard who helped him at Bloomingdale's, and starts a relationship with Lucia. However, after Ivanov's romance with Lucia ends, Lionel decides to move back to Alabama to see his young son, and Vladimir learns that his beloved grandfather back home has died. Grieving, Ivanov goes to a Russian nightclub to ease his mind. He later walks back to his apartment building drunk, only to be mugged by two young men. He later reports the incident to the police with Orlando present and the two go to a diner where Ivanov rants about his misfortunes. A nearby Russian immigrant overhears the conversation, and interrupts Ivanov to disagree, leading the two into a tense confrontation that is settled after Ivanov realizes his fortunes of living in America. Soon after, Lucia reunites with Vladimir and Lionel moves back from Alabama. In the end, Vladimir gets a job as a saxophonist in a wedding band, with time to play the music he loves during the day. He encounters the former apparatchik operating a hot dog stand, having lost his status back in the Soviet Union after Ivanov's defection. Ironically, the apparatchik is grateful to see Ivan and gives him a hot dog for free, showing his appreciation for the life he now has in America.