Emperor Akbar  and his Rajput wife, Jodha Bai  pray for a son. Akbar offers rituals to initiate the birth of a successor. After a child is born, the news is brought to the emperor by a maid. Overjoyed at his prayers being answered, the Emperor gives the maid his ring and promises to grant her any one wish she asks. The son, Prince Salim, grows to be a weak and pleasure-loving boy. His father sends him off to war in order to teach him courage and discipline. After 14 years, Salim returns as a distinguished soldier . Salim falls in love with Anarkali , a court-dancer. Salim wants to marry Anarkali and arranges secret meetings between her and himself. However, the jealous Bahaar , a dancer of a higher rank, wants the crown of India and she attempts to make the prince love her so that she may ascend to queenship. Unsuccessful in winning Salim's heart, she exposes the love between him and Anarkali. Salim pleads for Anarkali's hand, but his father objects and throws Anarkali into prison. Despite imprisonment, Anarkali refuses to reject Salim. Salim rebels and amasses his own army to confront Akbar. Salim is defeated in battle and is sentenced to death by his own father, but is told that the sentence will be revoked if Anarkali, now in hiding, is handed over to face death in his place. Akbar's subjects plead for the Emperor to spare his son, and Anarkali comes out of hiding to save the prince's life. She is condemned to death by entombment alive. Before her sentence is carried out, she pleads to have a few hours with Salim as his make-believe wife. She is granted the wish, as she agrees to drug him afterwards so that he cannot interfere with her entombment. As she is being walled up, Akbar is reminded that he still owes a favour to Anarkali's mother, since she was the one to whom Akbar gave his ring after she informed him of the birth of his son. Anarkali's mother takes advantage of this, and begs for her daughter's life. The emperor relents, and arranges for Anarkali's secret escape with her mother into exile. He stipulates, though, that they are to live in total obscurity, and that Salim is never to know that Anarkali still lives.