The film is set in Madison, Pennsylvania, in the summer of 1972. Vada Sultenfuss  is an 11-year-old tomboy and a hypochondriac. Vada's father, Harry Sultenfuss , is an awkward widower who does not seem to understand his daughter, constantly ignoring her as a result. His profession as a funeral director, for which the Sultenfuss' residence serves as a funeral parlor, has led Vada to develop an obsession with death. She thinks that she killed her mother, since her mother died giving birth to her. Vada regularly tends to her invalid grandmother Gramoo , who suffers from Alzheimer's disease. Harry's brother Phil , who lives nearby, also stops by frequently to help out the family. Vada is teased by other girls because her best friend, Thomas J. Sennett , is unpopular and a boy. One day, Vada gets squirted with a water gun by Thomas J., which makes Vada chase Thomas J. into the woods, where they get chased by bees after Thomas J. and Vada threw rocks at their hive, which is also where Vada loses her mood ring. Vada's summer begins well. She befriends Shelly DeVoto , the new make-up artist at her father's funeral parlor, who provides her with some much needed guidance. She is also infatuated with her teacher, Mr. Bixler , and steals some money from Shelly's trailer to attend a summer writing class that he is teaching. However, things start to fall apart. Her father and Shelly start dating and get engaged. Vada cannot bring herself to tell her father that she has experienced her first menstrual cycle; Shelly explains it after Vada runs around the house yelling that she is hemorrhaging. A couple of days later, Vada and Thomas J. sit at the dock by the river and end up kissing. Then, Thomas J. goes into the forest to look for Vada's mood ring and finds it, but gets stung by the bees and dies of an allergic reaction. Vada discovers that Mr. Bixler is about to get married to someone else. Shelly and Harry get into an argument at Thomas J's funeral, and Shelly angrily tells Harry that life isn't just about death, as well as not to ignore the living, especially his daughter. Vada's grief, however, manages to mend the rift between her and her father. She learns that her mother's death after her birth wasn't her fault . Eventually Vada makes a new friend, and not only comes to terms with her pain and grief, but also overcomes some of her previous issues as well.