In the fictional metropolis of Champion City, three men  attempt to make a name for themselves as superheroes, but find themselves upstaged by the well-sponsored Captain Amazing . However, Amazing is finding that his skill at capturing villains has left the city with virtually no crime, and his corporate sponsors are threatening to terminate his funding. In order to create a need for a superhero, Amazing uses his alter ego, the billionaire lawyer Lance Hunt, to argue for the release of the insane supervillain Casanova Frankenstein . The plan backfires; once reunited with Tony P  and his Disco Boys, Frankenstein blows up the insane asylum, captures Amazing, and sets his sights on creating a doomsday device, the "Psycho-frakulator", which can bend reality. Mr. Furious, while spying on Frankenstein's mansion, discovers Amazing's abduction and tells the others. The three realize they need more allies, and through word-of-mouth and try-outs, they bring aboard The Spleen , Invisible Boy , and The Bowler . The newly formed team "assaults" Casanova, which only succeeds in annoying him and damaging his car. While celebrating their victory, Tony P and his Disco Boys nearly kill the group, but they are saved by the Sphinx . The Sphinx begins to train them, annoying Mr. Furious with his methods – he has them complete rote team-building exercises and speaks exclusively in platitudes. They also recruit mad scientist Dr. Heller  who specializes in non-lethal weaponry. Attempting to save Captain Amazing, the group breaks into Casanova's mansion during a gathering of the city's various gangs. In their attempts to free him, however, Amazing becomes the first victim of the Psycho-frakulator. Without Amazing, the team despairs that there is no way they can save the city, but the Shoveler delivers a classic pep-talk that succeeds in changing the group's spirit. They assault the mansion, subduing most of the henchmen with their weapons and using their negligible powers to surprisingly good effect. Unfortunately, as the heroes approach Frankenstein, he reveals that he has kidnapped Mr. Furious' girlfriend, then proceeds to activate the Psycho-frakulator and wreak havoc upon the city. While the team tries to stop the device, Mr. Furious takes on Frankenstein. After being taunted by and taking a beating from Frankenstein, Mr. Furious unleashes his inner rage and actually manages to fight effectively. He defeats Frankenstein, who is thrown into the core of the Psycho-frakulator and killed by its reality-bending powers. The rest of the team helps the Bowler use her bowling ball to destroy the Psycho-frakulator. They escape the mansion as the device implodes, killing several villains inside. As the film closes, the team is interviewed by reporters, begging to know what their team name is. As they argue amongst themselves, one reporter states "Well, whoever they are, Champion City owes a great debt of gratitude to these 'Mystery Men'," but the others are too busy arguing to hear it.