This film centers on Rob Schmadtke, the tragic hero, who works for “Joe’s Cleaning Agency”, a company that removes bodies from public areas. This job leaves him the perfect opportunity to pursue his full-time hobby: necrophilia. He returns home from his job to his apartment and girlfriend, Betty. He plays with his assortment of preserved human remains and watches television while Betty takes a bath in blood laden water. Rob then enters a daydream of a young lop rabbit being caught on a farm and graphically slaughtered. He then returns to work and discovers his new obsession, a whole rotting corpse. It is discovered in a pond and during the removal process Rob absconds with it. He excitedly returns home to Betty like a husband returning with a romantic gift for his awaiting wife. They immediately cut a steel pipe and put a condom over it so Betty will have a phallus to straddle during their “ménage a trois”. This is immediately followed by a jump shot of grilling meat which is never established as either human or otherwise. Betty and Rob dine and converse while watching their new "toy" hang on the wall while plates collect the fluids that drip out. Rob goes to work the next day to be confronted by his coworkers who are tired of him leaving his dirty suit to fester in his locker and for his constant tardiness. After being bullied up the stairs to his boss he is fired. The film then jumps to Betty in the apartment, reading a love story to the corpse. She asks the corpse if it could feel the love in the story and begins to straddle the face of the corpse. When Rob returns he informs Betty of his termination and she berates him for his failure as well as the fact that he did not stand up for himself. He comes home later and finds that Betty has left and has taken the corpse. In a violent outburst he kills their cat and bathes with its blood and entrails in the tub while the body hangs over the tub. He then leaves to go to see a film and after being bullied by a fellow movie-goer leaves to go back to his apartment. Once there he attempts suicide with pills and whiskey. He begins to drift into a dream where he emerges from a garbage bag as a partially decaying Rob. He is soon greeted by a woman in white who gives him a corpse's head and they begin to dance, tossing the head and entrails of a body back and forth. Once he wakes up he leaves his apartment and hires a prostitute. They go to a cemetery where he strangles her and then has sex with her corpse. He is startled as he awakes beside her with an old man standing over them. Rob grabs the man’s shovel and chops the old man's head off. This is followed by Rob running along the coast. The film closes with Rob’s suicide. A grisly "climax" to the film which is composed of Rob stabbing himself while ejaculating. This scene is filled with flashbacks to the rabbit slaughter seen earlier in the film but in reverse. In a final ironic twist, we see Rob's gravestone until a woman starts digging him up.