William "Will" Thacker  owns an independent bookshop in Notting Hill that specialises in travel writing. He has been coping with divorce after his wife left him for a man who looked exactly like Harrison Ford. He shares his house with an uninhibited Welsh eccentric named Spike . Thacker encounters Hollywood star actress Anna Scott  when she enters his shop to buy a book. Minutes later, the pair collide in the street, causing Will to spill his orange juice on both of them. He offers his house across the road for Anna to change. She accepts and, having changed, surprises Will with a kiss which starts their mutual attraction. Days later, Will asks Spike if he has any messages. Spike has trouble writing or remembering messages but does recall "some American girl called Anna" who mentioned a "completely different name". Anna is at the Ritz, under the name "Flintstone", and has asked Will to visit. Will is allowed in, but her press interviews are still running and he is mistaken for a journalist.  He has to interview some of the cast of Anna's new film Helix, even though he has not seen it. Will is called back to see Anna and she tells him that she has cancelled her evening appointment to go out with him. Will is delighted but then remembers that his sister Honey  is about to have a birthday party, and Anna say that she will be his date. There, at Max's  and Bella's  house, Anna feels at home with Will's friends, but does not win the brownie for being the biggest under-achiever. Afterwards they climb into a private London square. The next day they visit a cinema and eat at a restaurant. Anna invites Will to her room at the Ritz, but her American boyfriend, a famous film star named Jeff King , has arrived unexpectedly. Anna is very embarrassed and disappointed but Will pretends to be a room-service waiter. When King steps out of the room, Anna apologizes; she thought King had broken up with her. Will realizes he must leave. He then tries to forget her but finds it very difficult. Six months later, Anna turns up at Will's house, unannounced. Pictures taken of her as a cheesecake model have been sold to the press and she needs a place to hide out. After spending the day together, Anna goes downstairs to where Will is sleeping and they embrace. They go up to the bedroom where they make passionate love and in the morning Anna asks if she can stay longer. "Stay for ever" says Will. The doorbell rings and Will is stunned to see reporters at the doorstep, alerted by careless talk by Spike at the pub. Angry at what she views as Will's betrayal, Anna leaves and he again attempts to forget her.  Six months after that, Anna returns to London to make a Henry James film, which Will had suggested. Will approaches the set of the film and sees Anna, who invites him to watch the day's filming and to talk afterwards. A sound engineer offers Will a pair of headphones to listen in on the dialogue, but he overhears Anna tell her co-star that Will is "no one, just some guy from the past". Crushed, Will leaves the set without having talked to Anna. The next day, Anna comes to the bookshop and asks why he had left. Will tells her that he had overheard her remarks. She explains that she didn't want her co-star to know because he is a notorious gossip. Will listens to her but then says that he could not survive a third rejection of his love and turns her down. Having brought him a present, she leaves it behind, still wrapped; it turns out to be an original Marc Chagall painting, La Mariée, that she had seen a print of in Will's home. Will meets his friends, who are supportive of his decision about Anna, until Spike arrives and promptly calls him a "daft prick". Will realizes he has made the biggest mistake of his life by letting her go. The group searches for Anna, racing around London in Max's car. They finally reach Anna's press conference and Will persuades her to stay in England with him. Anna and Will later marry, the film concluding with a shot of Will and a pregnant Anna on a park bench in a park.