Businessman Oh Dae-su is kidnapped the night of his young daughter's birthday and placed in solitary confinement in a hotel-like prison. Confined with no human contact or explanation for his kidnapping, Dae-Su soon learns through news reports his wife has been murdered, he is the prime suspect. Years pass with him in confinement, and Dae-su passes the time shadowboxing, planning revenge, and secretly attempting to tunnel out of his cell; after exactly fifteen years of confinement, Dae-su is released without explanation on a rooftop. Receiving a phone call from his captor and later collapsing at a sushi restaurant, Dae-su is taken in by Mi-do, the restaurant's young chef. After Dae-su tries to sexually assault Mi-do, she confides that she reciprocates his attraction to her, and states she will have sex with him when she is ready. After discovering his daughter has been adopted in Stockholm, a man communicating with Mi-do via instant messaging recognizes and taunts Dae-su; recalling the dumplings he ate daily while imprisoned, Dae-su tracks down the restaurant that makes them and follows a delivery moped to his captors. Discovering he was held in a private prison where people can pay to have others incarcerated, Dae-su tortures the owner Mr. Park for answers; he then finds out he was imprisoned for "talking too much", and fights his way out of the building. Revealing himself as Dae-su's kidnapper, Woo-jin Lee approaches Dae-su and gives him an ultimatum; discovering his motives in five days will result in Woo-jin killing himself, but failing will result in Mi-do's death. As Dae-su and Mi-do grow emotionally intimate, the two have sex. Dae-su discovers he and Woo-jin attended the same high school, and remembers spying on Woo-jin's incestuous relationship with his sister, Soo-ah. Unaware of the familial ties, he inadvertently spread a rumor before moving to Seoul; as a result of the rumor, Soo-ah suffered from false signs of pregnancy and committed suicide. Joining Dae-su's side after having his hand amputated by Woo-jin, Mr. Park agrees to incarcerate and protect Mi-do while Dae-su confronts Woo-jin. Arriving at Woo-jin's penthouse, Dae-su admits he accidentally drove Soo-ah to suicide. Woo-jin then reveals that he has been controlling Dae-su's actions; by giving Dae-su a photo album, Woo-jin imparts that Mi-do is actually Dae-su's daughter, and that he orchestrated events through a hypnotist to make them fall in love and commit incest. A horrified Dae-su, now aware that Mr. Park is still working for Woo-jin, begs the latter to conceal the secret from Mi-do, grovelling for forgiveness before slicing out his own tongue as a symbol of his silence. Asking Mr. Park to spare Mi-do from the truth, Woo-jin leaves in an elevator, only to relive his sister's death and shoot himself. Some time later, Dae-su sits in a winter landscape with the hypnotist whom Woo-jin used; touched by Dae-su's handwritten pleas, she hypnotizes him and alters his memories. Mi-do then finds Dae-su alone in the snow, and tells him she loves him before embracing him.