Daniel Kintner  and Susan Watkins  are an American couple frustrated that their hard-working lives don't allow them to spend much time together. They decide to pack up and head out on a scuba diving vacation to help relieve their everyday stress and improve their relationship. On their second day, Daniel and Susan join a group scuba dive. Some on board their boat express nervousness about sharks, but the dive instructor dismisses the danger with a joke. A head count is taken, and the passenger total is recorded as 20. Daniel and Susan get in the water along with the rest of the divers. One man, Seth, finds that he has forgotten his mask. He is upset over it and he gets verbally pushy with the boat's crew, but knowing the expectations of safe diving practices, he grudgingly remains on the boat. Daniel and Susan decide to separate briefly from the group while underwater. Meanwhile, a woman who is having problems with pressure equalization returns early to the boat with her partner. Including Seth, there are now three people back on the boat, and this is recorded by one of the crew as three "ticks" on their tally sheet. After this tally, Seth asks to borrow the mask of the woman who just returned, and he pressures the woman's reluctant dive partner into another dive with him. The two men leave the boat, but the dive tally sheet is not changed because the crew member maintaining it did not see them depart. Hence, there are still three ticks on the sheet instead of just one. Half an hour later, the rest of the group begins returning to the boat, and during that period the crew member diligently increments the tally as each diver arrives back on board. Going by the tally sheet, the total now on board comes to 20, though in reality the accurate count is 18. Daniel and Susan, having separated from the group earlier, are still underwater and have not yet realized that the others have all returned. The boat leaves the site, and although several belongings of Daniel and Susan are sitting openly in the passenger area of the boat, most individuals in the dive group do not know others beyond their dive partners, so no one happens to associate the stored belongings of Daniel and Susan with their absence on the boat. Not long after the boat leaves, Daniel and Susan return to the surface and look for it. They see a boat, presumably the dive boat, gradually disappearing in the distance. They believe the group will return to recover them in reasonable time, as they assume someone on board the boat will notice their belongings. Stranded at sea, Daniel and Susan rehash a few old disputes, bicker about the wisdom of swimming for occasional boats seen in the distance, battle bouts of hunger and mental exhaustion, and later realize by looking down through the water while wearing their masks that they have likely drifted far from the dive site. In addition to the worry that their rescue may be growing less certain, they also realize that sharks have been circling them below the surface. Susan is worried about the sharks, but Daniel tries to calm her, saying, "Sharks are attracted to wounded fish," and concludes that they should try to stay calm and not splash around. Soon, jellyfish appear and sting Daniel and Susan, while several times sharks are coming in very close, seemingly trying to determine if the couple are viable prey. Susan receives a small bite on the leg from a shark, but doesn't immediately realize it. Daniel notices this as he goes under to check out the light "nipping" feeling she has. He sees that it is a small fish feeding on the exposed flesh of her bite wound, but he does not tell Susan that the wound is a shark bite. Later, a shark bites Daniel and the wound begins to bleed profusely. Susan removes her weight belt and uses it to apply pressure to Daniel's wound. He appears to begin to go into shock. Susan is now very afraid, telling him to "just keep breathing." The tight-fitting neoprene wetsuits are apparently keeping them from fully realizing they have been sustaining small bites. After night falls, during a strong storm, sharks return and attack Daniel again, killing him. The next morning, the belongings of Daniel and Susan are finally noticed on the long-since-moored boat by an arriving member of its crew. He opens their duffel bag and finds their scuba certification cards with their photos on them, and suddenly he remembers the couple clearly and realizes they must have been left out at the dive site the previous day. A search for the couple is begun in earnest. Meanwhile Susan, having held on to Daniel through the night, realizes he is dead and releases him into the water, where sharks attack him in a feeding frenzy. Susan turns away from the lifeless bobbing movement of Daniel's floating body as the sharks pull him under. After putting on her mask, she looks beneath the surface and sees several large sharks now circling her. One seems to dart in her direction. Susan looks around one last time for any sign of coming rescue, and seeing none, removes her scuba gear, pushes it away, removes her mask, and goes underwater to drown before the sharks can attack. After Susan slips below the water's surface, the film scene flashes elsewhere, revealing a fishing crew cutting open a newly-caught shark's abdomen and stomach, and finding a waterproof diving camera, ostensibly that of Daniel and Susan. One of the fishermen asks off-handedly to another, "Wonder if it works?"