Joe Stephanos  is a foreboding looking man who arrives at small, out-of-the-way Bridgeport, California in search of Jeff Bailey . Jeff is dating local girl Ann Miller , whose parents are mistrustful of Jeff, as is Jim , the local law officer and long time admirer of Ann. Stephanos informs Jeff that Whit Sterling  wants to see him. Jeff reluctantly agrees. That night Jeff picks up Ann, and the two drive together to Jeff's meeting. Much of the film is related as a flashback, with Jeff narrating to Ann the story of his dark past. His real name is Jeff Markham. He and partner Jack Fisher  were private investigators in New York. Jeff had been hired by Whit to find his girlfriend, Kathie Moffat . Whit claims she shot him and left with $40,000 of his money. He assures Jeff he wants her back and will not harm her.  Jeff figures out Kathie headed for Acapulco. When he finds her there, he strikes up an acquaintance. A love affair develops, and Jeff ultimately tells her his real purpose. Kathie denies taking Whit’s money, and pleads with Jeff to run away with her. Preparing to leave with her the next morning, Jeff is surprised by Whit and Stephanos, who are at his door to check up on his progress. He asks Whit to take him off the case, but Whit refuses. Jeff then tells Whit that Kathie slipped past him and is on a steamer heading south. Whit leaves Jeff to track her down. Instead, Jeff and Kathie go north, to San Francisco. Once there, they live as inconspicuously as possible. As time goes by, they relax and settle into their new lives, but on an outing to the race track, they are spotted by Jeff’s old partner, Fisher. Jeff and Kathie split up, with Jeff trying to give Fisher the slip. However, when Jeff joins Kathie at a rural cabin, Fisher is already there. Fisher demands money to keep quiet. A fistfight breaks out, which Kathie brings to an abrupt end when she guns Fisher down. She then drives away, leaving Jeff to cover up the crime. He spots Kathie’s bankbook; it shows a deposit of $40,000. Returning to the present, Jeff and Ann arrive at Whit's estate. Whit appears genuinely glad to see him. To Jeff's surprise, Kathie is there too, having got back together with Whit. Whit says he wants to hire Jeff for a new job to make things right between them. He wants to recover income tax records that document a tax dodge. Whit's lawyer Leonard Eels  is using them to blackmail Whit. Jeff tries to get out of it, but Whit will not take no for an answer. Jeff suspects he is being set up. He tries to warn Eels, but returns later to find him dead. Kathie’s affidavit, in which she claims Jeff killed Fisher, is among the papers with the tax documents. Jeff slips into the nightclub later and takes the papers. He then hides out in Bridgeport. Unbeknownst to either Jeff or Whit, Kathie has arranged for Stephanos to follow Jeff's deaf and dumb young assistant, the Kid  to find Jeff and kill him. However, when Stephanos prepares to shoot Jeff, the Kid hooks him with his fishing line, causing Stephanos to fall to his death. Back at Lake Tahoe, Jeff convinces Whit to turn Kathie over to the police as Fisher’s murderer. Jeff has seemingly succeeded in slipping out of the trap, and will be able to lead a new life with Ann. Returning to Whit's later, however, he discovers that things have changed. Whit is there, but he has been shot dead. Jeff is stuck with his fate. Kathie declares she is in charge now. She gives Jeff the choice of running away with her or taking the blame for all three murders. Jeff agrees to go with her, but makes a secret phone call before they leave. When they come upon a police roadblock, Kathie realizes Jeff has betrayed her and shoots him. The police begin firing. The car careens off the road. Inside the wreck, the police find a great deal of money and the lifeless bodies of Kathie and Jeff. Afterward, Ann asks the Kid if Jeff was going away with Kathie. The Kid nods his head. Jim drives her home. With that, the Kid looks up at the gas station sign with Jeff's name on it, smiles and nods.