In the early 20th century, Peter Pan  visits London and becomes enthralled by the stories that Wendy Darling  tells to her brothers. Wendy asks to visit Never Land and Peter invites her to be the "mother" to his gang of Lost Boys . Before leaving, she asks to bring her brothers John  and Michael , and Peter teaches them all to fly with him. Out of jealousy, Tinker Bell  tricks the Lost Boys into shooting Wendy as she approaches the island, but Wendy survives and the boys ask her to be their mother and tell them stories. Two of the Lost Boys reveal to Peter that it was actually Tinkerbell who tricked them, and enraged by this, he breaks his friendship with her. Meanwhile, the Indian princess Tiger Lily  captures John and Michael by accident, just before Captain Hook  comes through the forest looking for the boys. Captain Hook captures Tiger Lily, John and Michael, and holds them as bait for Peter. All three of them are gagged and left hanging from a rock to drown as the tide rises. Peter and Hook engage in a duel and Hook manages to gain the upper hand when he disarms Peter and captures him momentarily. When Hook is about to kill Peter, the crocodile that ate Hook's hand appears, allowing Peter, Wendy and her brothers to escape. The Crocodile desperately tries to eat Hook by snapping his jaws around him, but he makes a narrow escape before the Crocodile can swallow him alive. That night, Peter shows Wendy the fairies home, Pixie Hollow, and share a romantic "fairy dance." While Hook spies on them, he is distressed that Peter has "found himself a Wendy." Peter reminds Wendy that they are just pretending to be a couple, and Wendy confronts Peter about his feelings about love. Peter becomes upset with her, and tells her to go home if she's not happy. Wendy, hurt, escapes to her little house. Peter returns to the Darling house, and seeing that Wendy's mother is still waiting for her children to come home, he attempts to shut the window to prevent her return to them. But, after a struggle, Wendy's parents manage to reopen the window, refusing to let it be closed. Hook later finds Wendy and has her carried to his ship, the Jolly Roger. There, he entices her with a job telling stories to the crew, then sends a spy to follow her to the Lost Boys' underground lair. The next day, after Peter hears of a new pirate, Wendy admits she was asked to serve as a crewman, which brings her to realise that they have forgotten their parents and must return home. Later, the pirates kidnap the boys as they are escorting the Darlings home, binding and gagging them as they leave the tree. Wendy finds out, but is gagged before she can cry out. Since Hook is unable to reach Peter, he leaves poison for him to drink when he wakes up. Tink stops him, poisoning herself in the process; Peter reaches out to children sleeping around the world, the Darlings, and even the pirates to sustain her with their belief in fairies. Peter and Tink save Wendy and the boys from walking the plank, and they all fight against the pirates. Hook sprinkles himself with Tink's fairy dust, and duels Peter in the air, weakening him with taunts about Wendy abandoning him and eventually forgetting about him when she grows up. Peter falls, unable to fight with those thoughts and gives in to inevitable death. But with a "thimble"  from Wendy, Peter recovers and re-engages Hook, who loses his confidence and his altitude above the water, and is swallowed by the crocodile, much to his enjoyment as he has finally eaten Hook and got the full taste of him. Wendy decides that she belongs back home, and returns to London with her brothers and the Lost Boys. Peter, now with more respect for Wendy and her decision to return to London, heads back home to Neverland. ===Alternative ending=== An alternative based on Barrie's epilogue is featured on the DVD, but with unfinished special effects and no music. In this version, Peter returns to the London house 20 years later, finding Wendy as a grown mother. He is deeply hurt when she tells him she has grown up, and walks over to Wendy's daughter, who is asleep in bed. His sobbing awakes the little girl, and she introduces herself as Jane. Peter grins excitedly at Wendy, and with her mother's permission, Jane flies away with Peter to Neverland as Wendy watches through the window after them.