Eight men eat breakfast at a Los Angeles diner before their planned diamond heist. Six of them use aliases: Mr. Blonde , Mr. Blue , Mr. Brown , Mr. Orange , Mr. Pink , and Mr. White . With them are gangster Joe Cabot , the organizer of the heist and his son, "Nice Guy" Eddie . After they leave the diner, the action abruptly cuts to a speeding car, in which Mr White comforts Mr Orange, who has been shot in the abdomen and is bleeding profusely. Shortly after they reach an abandoned warehouse, Mr. Pink arrives and angrily suggests that the job was a setup due to the rapid police response. The men also discuss Mr Blonde, who murdered several civilians after the alarm triggered. Mr. White is angered that Joe, an old friend of his, employed such a "psychopath" and agrees about a possible setup while Mr. Pink reveals that he escaped with the diamonds and hid them in a secure location. They argue over whether to take the now unconscious Mr Orange to a hospital, while Mr White reveals that he had revealed his true identity to Mr Orange, after bonding with him. Mr Blonde, having watched them from a distance, steps forward and ends the dispute. Mr White berates him for his deadly rampage, but Mr Blonde dismisses the criticism. He tells the others to wait as Eddie is on his way there. Mr Blonde has also taken a police officer, Marvin Nash , hostage and the three men beat Nash in an attempt to find out if there is an informant. Eddie then arrives and orders Mr Pink and Mr White to assist him in retrieving the stolen diamonds and dispose of the hijacked vehicles, while Mr Blonde stays with Nash and the unconscious Mr Orange. Alone with Mr Blonde, Nash denies any knowledge of a setup, but Mr Blonde is uninterested and wishes to torture Nash for his own amusement. Mr Blonde slashes Nash's face with a straight razor and severs his right ear. He then douses Marvin in gasoline, but before he can ignite it, Mr Orange shoots and kills Mr Blonde. Mr Orange reveals to Nash he is an undercover cop, reassuring Nash that a large police force is in position to move in nearby, but is waiting until Joe arrives. Eddie, Mr Pink, and Mr White return to the warehouse to find Mr Blonde dead. Mr Orange claims that Mr Blonde was going to kill all of them and take the diamonds for himself. After impulsively pulling out his gun and killing Nash, Eddie rejects Mr Orange’s claims, telling him that Mr Blonde was a close personal friend who had always remained loyal to him and his father. As Mr Orange struggles to justify his actions, Joe arrives and reveals that Mr Blue is dead. He confidently accuses Mr Orange of being an informant, forcing Mr White to defend his friend. Joe, about to execute Mr Orange, is stopped when Mr. White pulls out a gun at him, and Eddie in turn takes aim on Mr White. Joe shoots Mr Orange, wounding him again, Mr. White shoots and kills Joe in response, Eddie shoots Mr White, wounding him, before Mr White then shoots and kills Eddie. Mr Pink, who was hiding, takes the diamonds and flees. As Mr White cradles Mr Orange in his arms, Mr Orange reveals that he is indeed an undercover cop. The devastated Mr White points his gun at Mr Orange's head. The police storm the warehouse, demanding that Mr White drop his gun. Mr White pulls the trigger before shots fire.