Rover lives a life of fun in Las Vegas, gambling and chasing girls with his best friend Eddie. One night, he sees his owner Connie's ex-boyfriend, Rocky, in a transaction with a pair of gangsters, and accidentally disrupts it. Thinking that Rocky is an undercover cop setting them up, the gangsters flee, telling Rocky that he has blown his last chance. The next day, Connie goes on the road for two weeks, leaving Rocky to look after Rover. In revenge for ruining his deal, Rocky puts Rover in a bag, drives him to Hoover Dam, and throws him in the water. The bag is pulled out by two passing fishermen, and Rover runs into a farmer, Cal, and his son, Danny, who convinces his father to take him in. Cal agrees on one condition: if Rover does even one sight of trouble, he'll be sent to an animal shelter, and if nobody claims him, the animal shelter will put Rover to sleep. Rover has difficulty adjusting to life on the farm, but with the help of Daisy, the beautiful dog next door, he succeeds in earning his keep. However, in an attempt to save the Christmas turkey from some wolves, Rover ends up holding the dead bird, looking as if he killed it. The next morning, Cal takes Rover into the woods to shoot him, but is attacked by the wolves. Rover manages to fight the wolves off, and brings the other farm dogs to get Cal home. Rover's heroics make the papers, allowing Eddie and Connie to find out where he is. Connie brings Rover back to Vegas, where Rover confronts Rocky. After Rocky accidentally confesses to Connie what he did, Rover and his dog friends chase him into the limo of the gangsters, who reveal that helping him escape is a setup. While Rover happily listens, the thugs proceed to imply that they plan to murder him by throwing him over Hoover Dam. Soon after, Rover, missing Daisy, becomes depressed. Connie, realizing this, takes Rover back to the farm to stay. Rover is reunited with Daisy, who reveals to him that he is a father, unveiling six puppies. The story ends with Rover teaching his kids how to play cards, and playfully chasing Daisy around the farmyard.