An unnamed narrator wanders through the Winter Palace  in Saint Petersburg. The narrator implies that he has died in some horrible accident and is a ghost drifting through the palace. In each room, he encounters various real and fictional people from various time periods in the city's three-hundred-year history. He is accompanied by "the European", who represents the nineteenth-century French traveller, the Marquis de Custine. Russian Ark uses the fourth wall device extensively, but repeatedly broken and re-erected; at times the narrator-director and the companion interact freely with the other performers; at other times, they go completely unnoticed. On a winter's day, a small party of men and women arrive by horse-drawn carriage to a minor, side entrance of the Winter Palace. The narrator  meets another spectral but visible outsider, "the European", and follows him through numerous rooms of the Palace. Each room manifests a different period of Russian history; however the periods are not in chronological order. Featured are Peter the Great harassing one of his generals; a spectacular presentation of operas and plays in the era of Catherine the Great; a formal court proceeding in which Tsar Nicholas I is offered a formal apology by the Shah of Iran for the death of Alexander Griboedov, an ambassador; the idyllic family life of Tsar Nicholas II's children; the formal changing of the Palace Guard; the museum's director whispering the need to make repairs during the rule of Joseph Stalin and a desperate Leningrader making his own coffin during the 900-day siege of the city during World War II. A grand ball follows, featuring music by Mikhail Glinka, with many hundreds of participants in spectacular period costume, and a full orchestra conducted by Valery Gergiev, then a long final exit with a crowd down the Grand Staircase of the palace. The narrator then leaves the building through a side exit and sees an endless ocean, but does not look back or see the building, which can be interpreted as an ark preserving Russian culture as it floats in the sea of time.