{{Plot}} The film starts with a naked figure sitting in a tree in what looks like a mental asylum. Nurses come out to him, bringing a plate of conventional food and also one of a raw fish. As they try to coax him off of his perch, it is the fish that persuades him to come down. As the nurses get him to put on some overalls the viewer sees that he has a tattoo of phoenix on his chest. ===Flashback=== The film flashes back into Fenix's childhood, which he spent performing as a "child magician" in a circus run by his father Orgo the knife-thrower and his mother Concha, a trapeze artist and aerialist. The circus crew also includes, among others, a woman whose body is covered in tattoos and who acts as the object of Orgo's knife-throwing feats , her adopted daughter Alma , Fenix's midget friend Aladin, a pack of clowns, and a small elephant. Orgo carries on a very public flirtation with the Tattooed Woman, and their knife-throwing act is heavily sexualized. Concha is also the leader of a religious cult that considers as its patron saint a little girl who was raped and had her arms cut off by two brothers. At the time of the flashback, their church is about to be bulldozed at the behest of the owner of the land on which it is located, and the followers make one last stand against the police and the bulldozers. A Roman Catholic monsignor drives into the conflict, saying that he will prevent its demolition. But after he enters the temple to inspect it, he deems it blasphemous and unworthy , so the demolition is carried out. Fenix leads Concha back to the circus, where she finds out about Orgo's affair, but Orgo, being also a hypnotist, mesmerizes Concha to do his bidding and has sex with her as well. The circus elephant then dies, much to Fenix's grief, and a public funeral is conducted, in which the elephant is paraded through the city inside a giant casket. The casket is then tilted down into the city dump, where immediately scavengers open it and proceed to carve the elephant and take away the meat. Orgo consoles his son by tattooing a spread-eagled phoenix into Fenix's chest, identical to the one on his own chest, using only one of his knives dipped in ink. This tattoo, Orgo says, will make Fenix a man. Later on, as Fenix performs with his mother on stage, Concha, who is suspended mid-air while hanging from her hair, sees Orgo and the Tattooed Woman sneak out of the tent. She chases after them, sees them sexually engaged, and deliberately pours a bottle of sulfuric acid onto Orgo's genitals, mutilating them. Orgo, in turn, sets her against a big bullseye and cuts off both her arms . He then walks into the street and slits his throat. Fenix watches this, locked inside a trailer. He also sees the Tattooed Woman running away with Alma. ===Flash-forward=== Back in the present, Fenix goes out to a field trip to a movie theater along with other patients, most of whom suffer from Down Syndrome. A pimp intercepts him and four others and persuades them to take cocaine and follow him to a large prostitute. On the way Fenix spots the Tattooed Woman, who is now a prostitute, and becomes filled with rage. The Tattooed Woman is also shown prostituting Alma, who manages to escape the house and runs away into the night. Back in the asylum, Fenix's armless mother Concha calls out for him from the street and he escapes by climbing down his cell window. The Tattooed Woman is then repeatedly stabbed and killed by a pair of womanly hands. Mother and son go on to put an act where he stands behind her and inserts his arms in her sleeves so that she pretends to have arms again. Together they perform mimicry and piano-playing. But soon enough Fenix realizes that his mother can literally take full control of his arms to do her bidding. This does not only include performing day-to-day acts such as eating or knitting, but also killing those women whom she deems a threat to her son. He is forced to kill a young woman in the fashion his father Orgo used to knife-throw, as well as a cross-dressing wrestler, whom he slashes with a sword. It is revealed in a dream that he has killed many more women, all of whose memories haunt him. Alma finds Fenix and together plan to run away from Concha and her house, now fashioned in a similar way to her demolished temple. She tries to force him to murder Alma as well, but after some struggle he manages to plunge a knife into Concha's stomach, apparently killing her. But she reveals to him that she will always be inside him, and vanishes. Through a series of flashbacks it is revealed that Concha actually died after being maimed by Orgo, and that Fenix has kept a mannequin in the fashion of his armless mother while performing both on stage and at home. He destroys the homemade temple and throws away the mannequin with the help of his hallucinated childhood friends, Aladin and the clowns. The police are waiting outside the house and order both Fenix and Alma to put their hands up. Both comply, and Fenix watches his own with awe as he does so. He has regained control of them.