In 1980, Cuban refugee Tony Montana  arrives in Miami during the Mariel boatlift. He, along with his best friend Manny Ribera , and their associates Angel  and Chi-Chi , are sent to "Freedomtown", a refugee camp. In exchange for killing a former Cuban government official at the request of wealthy drug dealer Frank Lopez, the group are released from Freedomtown and given green cards. On the outside, they are offered a deal by Frank's henchman Omar Suarez  to buy cocaine from Colombian dealers. The deal falls through and Angel is murdered with a chainsaw by the Colombians. Manny and Chi-Chi storm the apartment before the same fate befalls Tony, and the Colombians are killed. Suspecting that Omar betrayed them, Tony and Manny insist on taking the money and drugs retrieved from the deal to Frank personally. Impressed, Frank hires Tony and Manny. During their meeting, Tony meets, and is instantly attracted to Elvira Hancock , Frank's girlfriend. Months later, Tony visits his mother Georgina , and younger sister, Gina , of whom he is fiercely protective. His mother is disgusted by his life of crime and throws him out. As Tony gets in his waiting car, Manny comments on Gina's beauty before being warned by Tony to stay away from her. Frank sends Tony and Omar to Bolivia to meet with cocaine kingpin Alejandro Sosa . Tony agrees to a deal with Sosa without Frank's approval, and Omar leaves to contact Frank. Sosa discloses that Omar is a police informant and then has Tony witness as a beaten Omar is pushed to his death from a helicopter. Tony vouches for the rest of his organization and Frank, and Sosa agrees to the deal, parting with a warning that Tony should never betray him. In Miami, Frank is infuriated by Omar's demise and the unauthorized deal struck by Tony. Frank and Tony's relationship dissolves, and Tony establishes his own organization and informs Elvira of his intentions toward her. At a nightclub, Tony is shaken down by corrupt detective Mel Bernstein , who proposes to "tax" Tony's business dealings in return for police protection and information. Tony angers Frank further by openly pursuing Elvira in the club. Tony sees Gina dancing with a drug dealer. He throws the dealer out, and following a heated exchange he slaps Gina. Manny takes Gina home. Hitmen attempt to assassinate Tony, but he escapes. Suspecting that Frank sent both Bernstein and the hitmen, Tony, Manny and Chi-Chi go to Frank's office, where they find him with Bernstein. When a planned phone call by one of Tony's henchmen sets up Frank's involvement, Manny kills Frank and Tony kills Bernstein. Tony takes Elvira and seizes Frank's empire. With Sosa's supplies, Tony builds a multi-million dollar empire, and he later marries Elvira. However, the operation struggles as Tony and Elvira excessively use cocaine, Tony's money launderer demands more pay, and Manny grows resentful as Tony takes all credit for their success. Eventually, Tony is charged with money laundering and tax evasion after a police sting operation. Sosa offers to use his government connections to keep Tony out of jail if Tony assassinates a Bolivian journalist intending to expose Sosa during a speech to the United Nations. Later, Tony further pushes Manny and Elvira away by blaming Manny for his arrest and accusing Elvira of being infertile due to her drug use. After a fight, Elvira leaves Tony. In New York City, Tony, Chi-Chi and Sosa's henchman Alberto  prepare for the assassination. Alberto plants a bomb on the journalist's car, but when he is unexpectedly accompanied by his family, Tony calls off the mission. Alberto insists on continuing, forcing Tony to kill him. Later, Tony learns that Manny and Gina have been missing for several days. Returning home, Tony is contacted by a furious Sosa over the mission failure. Sosa ends their business relationship and reminds Tony that he should not have betrayed him. In search of Gina, Tony goes to his mother's house where he is given an address in Coconut Grove. Arriving at the address, he finds Manny in a robe. When Tony also sees Gina in a robe, he kills Manny. Gina tells Tony that she and Manny had just gotten married and were planning to surprise him. Tony and his men take Gina to Tony's mansion. Tony declares war on Sosa before burying his face in a large mound of cocaine. Meanwhile, Sosa's men have already begun assaulting the mansion and killing Tony's men. A drugged Gina accuses Tony of wanting her himself, before shooting him in the leg. One of Sosa's men shoots Gina. Tony kills the man and becomes distraught at the sight of Gina's corpse. In a cocaine-fueled fury, Tony uses a grenade-launcher equipped rifle to assault Sosa's men. Tony is repeatedly shot, but continues to fight until he is shot in the back. Tony's corpse falls into a fountain below, in front of a statue reading "The World is Yours".