Ex-con and expert safe-cracker Gary "Gal" Dove  has served his time behind bars and blissfully retired to a Spanish villa with his beloved ex-porn star wife Deedee . He also has the company of longtime friend Aitch and his wife Jackie. Their idyllic life is shattered by the arrival of an old criminal associate, sociopath Don Logan , who is intent on enlisting Gal in a bank heist back in London. Organizing the heist is Teddy Bass, a powerful crime lord, who has learned about the bank's vault from Harry, the bank's CEO whom he met at a sex orgy. Dove politely but firmly declines Logan's many demands to join the heist, but Logan will not back down. After revealing a lingering infatuation with Jackie, Logan also makes several unwelcome attempts at reconnecting with her. Logan eventually grows angry, hurling torrents of abuse at the group while at the same time spitefully painting himself as a victim of their betrayal. After storming away in a rage, Logan boards a plane back to London, only to be kicked off for refusing to put out his cigarette. Seething with hatred, Logan returns to Dove's home with ominous intentions, smashing a glass beer bottle into his former friend's ear. Deedee shoots Don with a shotgun, immobilising him. The four friends join in their efforts to kill him, first beating him, stomping him, shooting him again and finally crushing his skull. Hoping to cover up Logan's murder, Dove returns to London to perform the job. When asked by Bass about Logan's whereabouts, Dove feigns ignorance and claims Logan had called him "from Heathrow." However, Bass is visibly suspicious, and Dove's anxieties mount. During the heist, Bass' crew use surface-supplied diving gear to drill into Harry's bank vault from a pool in a neighboring bath house. The water from the pool floods the vault and shorts its security system. While helping to empty the vault's safe deposit boxes, Dove secretly pockets a pair of large ruby earrings encrusted with diamonds. After the job is successfully completed, Dove's lack of joviality further raises Bass's suspicions. Bass offers Dove a ride to the airport, but along the way, stops by Harry's home. Inside, Bass kills Harry in cold blood and immediately and pointedly questions Dove again about Logan. Dove merely responds, "I'm not into this any more." Back in the car, Bass suggests he knows what happened to Logan, saying, "Spain, eh? I must drop in sometime. Pay my respects." He offers Gal £10 in payment for his services, saying "See, If I cared, Gal, if I fucking cared, if I gave a solitary fuck about Don... Get out of the fucking car!" In the final scene, back in Spain, Dove is again home surrounded by his friends and by Deedee, who is seen wearing the ruby-diamond earrings that he stole. It is also revealed that Logan lies buried under the double-heart insignia at the bottom of their pool.