NYPD Detective John Shaft  is called in to investigate the racially motivated murder of Trey Howard , committed by Walter Wade Jr. , the son of a wealthy real estate tycoon. Shaft briefly meets a potential eyewitness to the murder, Diane Palmieri , but she disappears soon after and cannot be found for the trial. Wade Jr. is let off on bail and flees to Switzerland. Two years later, Wade Jr. returns and Shaft rearrests him for leaving the country. During his temporary incarceration at police headquarters, Wade Jr. meets Peoples Hernandez , a Dominican drug lord. Wade Jr., his passport relinquished, is let off on bail again, and in frustration Shaft resigns from the police force, promising to bring Wade Jr. to justice on his own terms. Worried that Shaft might find the missing eyewitness, Wade Jr. hires Peoples to find and kill her first. Shaft continues his search for Diane, enlisting the help of his friends Detective Carmen Vasquez  and taxi driver Rasaan . While visiting Diane's uncooperative mother, Shaft and Carmen realise they are being followed by officers Jack Roselli  and Jimmy Groves , who have been paid by Peoples to follow Shaft and get to Diane. Shaft finally finds Diane, but before they can talk, they are attacked by Peoples's men. In the shootout, Shaft kills Peoples' younger brother. Shaft, Diane, Rasaan, and Diane's brother manage to escape to Rasaan's apartment, but they are followed by Roselli and Groves. While at the apartment, Diane confesses that she saw the entire murder, and kept silent in return for a payoff from Wade's father. When Peoples arrives at the location, another shootout takes place. Roselli and Groves, outed as corrupt, are killed by Carmen. In a face-off between Shaft and Peoples, Peoples insinuates that he's been working for Wade, and Shaft kills him. Wade Jr.'s trial finally arrives. Before it can begin, however, he is gunned down by Trey's mother, Carla Howard . In the police station, Shaft reiterates to Carmen that he prefers to be a private detective. A woman arrives, asking for Shaft to help her, claiming to have an abusive boyfriend. Shaft is initially reluctant, but when he sees her injury, he decides to help her anyway. Shaft, along with his uncle , go together to face to the victim.