Number 5  is one of five anthropomorphic prototype robots proposed for Cold War use by the U.S. military, although the scientist mainly responsible for creating them, Newton Graham Crosby, Ph.D.  and his partner Ben Jabituya , are more interested in peaceful uses of their artificial intelligence, like playing musical instruments and providing social aid. While a demonstration takes place on the grounds of the developer's company, Nova Laboratories in Damon, Washington, a lightning storm forces the presentation to end early. A power surge hits Number 5 while it is recharging and alters its program, causing a malfunction. An associated accident causes it to be taken off company grounds and it wanders away, barely able to communicate and not knowing where it is. Number 5 finds itself at the home of animal-lover Stephanie Speck  in Astoria, Oregon, a young woman who is in an abusive relationship with her ex-boyfriend Frank. At first, Stephanie initially thinks the robot is an extraterrestrial visitor. She later determines that the robot was built by Nova. After she helps Number 5 satisfy his cravings for "input" , and explains the nature of life and death to it, Stephanie and the robot realize the power surge has brought the robot to life. Number 5 subsequently gains a respect for life, rejecting the destructive nature of his military programming and developing a fear of the disassembly that awaits him back at Nova, which he sees as akin to death. After several narrow escapes from a troop of soldiers led by Nova's security head Captain Skroeder  — who in his attempt to destroy the wayward robot disobeys orders from Howard Marner , the director of Nova — as well as from Frank, Stephanie and the robot finally convince Newton of the robot's sentience, but are cornered by the full weight of Nova's security and the Army, who seemingly destroy the robot. With the project that spawned the robots ruined, a mournful Marner fires Skroeder for disobeying orders to capture Number 5 intact. In tears, Stephanie leaves with Newton, who decides to go to Montana, having quit Nova. Number 5 surprises both by agreeing with the idea as he appears from underneath the truck. Unbeknownst to the soldiers, the robot destroyed was a copy built by Number 5 from spare parts laying in Newton's truck. Number 5  leaves for Montana with Stephanie and Newton.