After Shrek  and Fiona  come back from their honeymoon, they find an invitation to a royal ball with Fiona's parents to celebrate their marriage, an event Shrek is reluctant to participate in. Fiona, Shrek and Donkey  travel to the kingdom of Far Far Away and meet Fiona's parents, King Harold and Queen Lillian , who are surprised by Fiona's choice of husband and her new appearance. Harold becomes repulsed and at a shared meal, as he and Shrek get into a heated argument over how Shrek and Fiona will raise their family. Fiona, disgusted at Shrek's and her father's behavior, locks herself in her room that evening, where she meets her Fairy Godmother , who is also surprised at Fiona's new looks. Shrek worries that he has lost his true love, particularly after finding the diary from her teenhood and reading that she was once infatuated with Prince Charming . King Harold is accosted by the Fairy Godmother and Charming, her son. He had arranged with the Fairy Godmother that her son would overcome many obstacles in order to rescue Fiona and break the spell, finding instead the Big Bad Wolf using the tallest tower as a hangout. They reprimand Harold for breaking an old promise that Charming would be able to marry Fiona and demand that he find a way to get rid of Shrek. After Shrek reads Fiona's diary and pages containing the single phrase "Mrs. Fiona Charming", Harold arranges for Shrek and Donkey to join him on a fictitious hunting trip, which really is a trap to lure the two into the hands of an assassin, Puss in Boots . When Fiona realizes that Shrek left, she asks her father for help, but he replies that he always wanted the best for her and that she should think about what is the best for her, too. Puss is unable to defeat Shrek and, revealing that he was paid by Harold, asks to come along as a way to make amends. Shrek decides to go to the Fairy Godmother for help. However, the Fairy Godmother states that ogres do not live "happily ever after" and refuses to assist. Nonetheless, the three sneak into the Fairy Godmother's potion factory and steal a "Happily Ever After" potion that Shrek believes will restore Fiona's love for him. Shrek and Donkey both drink the potion, which doesn't appear to work, but when it starts to rain, they leave, and in doing so they fail to notice that a mushroom that Shrek previously sneezed potion on changes into a beautiful rose. They wait out the storm in a barn and, while there, Shrek and Donkey become dizzy and fall over and into a deep sleep. When they awake, they discover the potion has taken effect: Shrek is now a handsome human, while Donkey has turned into a stallion. In order to make the change permanent, Shrek must kiss Fiona by midnight. He, Donkey, and Puss return to the castle to discover that the potion has also transformed Fiona back into her former, human self from the first movie. However, the Fairy Godmother, having learned of the potion's theft, sends Charming to the castle, where he poses as Shrek to win Fiona's love. Although Harold recognizes Charming for who he really is, he doesn't speak up. Shrek heartbroken lets Fiona go, believing she will be happier with Charming. A few hours later, Shrek hears that Fiona hasn't fallen for Charming, and that Harold has been given a love potion to put in Fiona's tea, which will cause her to fall in love with the first person she kisses. Harold, knowing that it is madness refuses, but the Fairy Godmother threatens to take away his 'Happily Ever After', if he does not fulfill her wish. The trio overhear the exchange, and are noticed by the Fairy Godmother, who has them arrested by the royal guards and thrown into a dungeon. When the royal ball begins, several of Shrek's friends band together to free the trio  and create a gigantic gingerbread man , which breaks through the castle's defences so Shrek can stop the kiss, Mongo falls into the moat, losing his arms as a result. When Shrek arrives, Charming forcibly kisses Fiona, believing the potion has taken effect, Fiona knocks him out temporarily with a headbutt. When the Fairy Godmother confronts Harold, he reveals that he gave her the wrong tea, having realized her love for Shrek. The Fairy Godmother tries to kill Shrek, Harold commits self-sacrifice to save Shrek, his armour reflects and disintegrates the Fairy Godmother into a cloud of bubbles; it also returns Harold to his true form, that of the Frog Prince. Harold apologizes to Shrek and Fiona for everything he has done, and now realizes what is best for Fiona, giving his blessing. Shrek forgives him, and Lillian tells Harold that she still loves him no matter what. When it is midnight, Shrek tells Fiona that if they kiss now, then their change will be permanent. But Fiona says that she wants more than any other princess wants to live happily ever after with the ogre she married. The clock chimes as the potion's effects wear off, with Donkey changing back as well, much to his chagrin, he cheers up as Shrek reassures him he still is a noble steed to him, Puss and Donkey sing as the royal ball resumes celebrating the true loved newlyweds. After the credits roll Donkey is seen complaining about missing his dragon mate, suddenly she appears with six babies they call "Dronkeys" ".