High school sophomore Samantha "Sam" Baker struggles to get through the day of her 16th birthday, which her entire family forgets because her older sister, Ginny, is getting married the next day. She is also plagued by her ongoing infatuation with the very popular and very attractive senior, Jake Ryan. Her day at school fares no better when she finds out that her completed "sex quiz," which she surreptitiously slipped to her friend, never reached her . Sam panics as the quiz contains personal information, including the fact that she is a virgin and is saving herself for Jake. She has a whole new set of problems when she arrives home to find that both sets of grandparents are staying at the Baker home for the duration of the wedding visit. On top of it all, one set of grandparents brings along bizarre Asian foreign exchange student, Long Duk Dong. Sam's grandparents force her to take him along to her school dance that night and, to Sam's amazement, it takes "The Donger" only five minutes to find an unlikely girlfriend &mdash; the tallish, large-breasted jock, Marlene, nicknamed "Lumberjack." It is found that they are slow dancing in the gym. A running subplot involves a geeky freshman who continually  tries to bed his love interest, Sam, to satisfy a bet with his friends. The character is referred to on several occasions in the movie as either "Ted" or "Farmer Ted", but he is credited solely as "the Geek." Sam knocks him off in the bus on the way home by saying, "Go to hell." In the auto shop during the dance, Sam and Ted begin talking and Sam confesses her love for Jake. Upon hearing this, he tells her that Jake had been asking about her at the dance, and they agree that Sam should just go and talk to him. As she's leaving, he reveals the wager to Sam, who, in her excited state, agrees to loan him her panties to help him win a dozen floppy disks. Later , Ted and his equally unwelcome geeky friends, Cliff and Bryce , enter the senior after-party. When Cliff asks Ted if he's panicky about going to a senior party, Ted assures his friends by saying, "We got seventy dollars and we got a pair of girl's  underpants. We're safe as kittens, okay? This is a great social opportunity for us! Come on!" When they knock the door, Long Duk Dong who also attends the party with his new girlfriend greets them and Ted and his gang get through the door but they make a big mistake by knocking the jocks' beer can pyramid on the table over. Ted and Bryce leave it up to Cliff to deal with the jocks. Meanwhile upstairs in Jake's bedroom, Jake takes the opportunity to look through the yearbook and finds Sam's photo. He jots down her phone-number on his scrap of paper and calls her only to be disappointed when her grandparents pick up the phone. He says, "Um..Would it be possible for you to tell me if there's Samantha Baker there and if so may I converse with her briefly?" but he is unsuccessful. At Jake's house &mdash; during which the entire house is completely trashed. At night's end, Jake finds Ted trapped under a table and they begin to talk. Jake inquires further about Sam; Ted explains the situation. Jake makes a deal with Ted: If Ted lets Jake keep Sam's panties, then he will let Ted drive home his drunk girlfriend, Caroline Mulford, in Jake's father's Rolls Royce. Jake later uses the excuse of finding them together to break up with Caroline . Afterward, Jake drives to the church just in time to meet an incredulous Sam after her sister's wedding. The movie concludes with them sharing a kiss over a birthday cake with 16 candles.