After Nashawn Wade  gets his butt stuck in an airline toilet, the plane suffers a minor disaster and, as a result, his dog is sucked through a jet engine. He then sues the airline and gets a settlement of $100,000,000. He decides to use the money to start his own airline, called NWA , whose acronym and logo are a pop culture reference to rap group N.W.A. and based on the real airline Northwest Airlines. The airline specifically caters to African Americans and hip hop culture. The terminal at the airport is called the Malcolm X terminal, the plane is a heavily modified 747-200, customized with low-rider hydraulics, spinners, blended winglets for longer range, and a dance club. The safety video is also a spoof of the Destiny's Child song "Survivor". The flight took off from LAX Airport late in the evening with Captain Mack  in command. However, during the first flight of the fictional airline, Nashawn is trying to deal with a multitude of problems. His pilot has acrophobia. He has never left the ground because he learned to fly in prison. As Nashawn learns this, he asks him who his "flying buddies" are which Captain Mack told him were from the Air Force. Captain Mack then shows him a picture of him with Taliban members with Arabian style music in the background. Meanwhile, his cousin Muggsey , is setting up a miniature casino and strip joint in one of the areas on the plane , and Nashawn's ex-girlfriend is on board and less than happy to see him. The Hunkee family also appear to have problems in the movie; Elvis Hunkee's  daughter is turning eighteen and plans to allegedly use the newfound freedom by drinking and having sex, his son has transformed in a matter of seconds from an exact duplicate to acting like a stereotypical wigger, and his wife has found a new interest in black men after viewing pictures in a pornographic magazine. The pilot seemingly dies, after eating mushrooms that the co-pilot  uses to soothe his genital crabs. Nashawn then attempts to contact the co-pilot, who is incapacitated after slipping on the water located around the hot tub, forcing Nashawn to attempt to land the plane himself. Nashawn lands the plane safely, using the airplane stewardess' flight knowledge learned while having sex in the cockpit with the pilot on another flight, in the middle of Central Park only to have the spinners stolen from the plane. He then gets back together with his ex-girlfriend after earlier revealing to her that he only broke up with her so she wouldn't give up her college opportunities for him. The movie ends with the Nashawn telling the audience the fate of his crew. He claims that he and his ex-girlfriend are back together taking their relationship slow this time around, his cousin Muggsey has started a strip club and gambling casino located in an airplane similar to the club in Nashawn's plane, Elvis Hunkee has begun a sexual relationship with one of the abrasive airline security guards , and Elvis Hunkee's son has become a major music video director but has disappeared shortly after filming a Michael Jackson video. Also the pilot later wakes up with his chain and clothing stolen.