Set in 1991, the film depicts the governments of the U.S. and China on the verge of a major trade agreement, with the President of the United States due to pay a visit to China to seal the deal. The CIA gets word that its agent Tom Bishop  has been captured trying to free an Englishwoman, Elizabeth Hadley , from a People's Liberation Army prison in Su Chou near Shanghai. Bishop is being questioned under torture and will be executed in 24 hours unless he is claimed by the U.S. government. If the CIA claims Bishop as an agent, they risk destroying the trade agreement. Exacerbating the situation is the fact that Bishop was operating without permission from the Agency. In an attempt to quickly deal with the situation, CIA executives call in Nathan Muir , an aging mid-level case officer on his last day before retirement and the man who recruited Bishop. Although they tell Muir they simply need him to act as a "stop gap" to fill in some holes in their background files, the officials are hoping he gives them the smoking gun they need to justify letting Bishop die. The CIA higher-ups are not aware that Muir has already been tipped off by fellow CIA veteran Harry Duncan , for whom Bishop had been working an operation in Hong Kong before going rogue, about Bishop's capture prior to Muir's arrival at the CIA's headquarters. Muir first attempts to save Bishop by leaking the story to CNN through a contact in Hong Kong, believing that the CIA will rescue Bishop once a public outcry puts pressure on them to do so. Unfortunately, the tactic only stalls them as a phone call to the FCC from CIA Deputy Director Charles Harker  results in CNN retracting the story. During the debriefing, Muir describes how he recruited Bishop for an operation when Bishop was a U.S. Marine scout sniper during the Vietnam War. Muir also discusses their tour of duty in Berlin, Germany in 1976 where Bishop was tasked with procuring East German assets with Muir commanding, as well as Bishop's spy work in Beirut, Lebanon in 1985 during the War of the Camps, which was the last time the two saw each other. During the mission in Lebanon, Bishop met Hadley, and they began developing romantic feelings for each other. However, it is later revealed that Hadley was involved in a bombing of the Chinese embassy in the UK, causing her to flee the country. Fearing that Bishop's feelings for Hadley might compromise his cover and the mission, Muir tips off the Chinese to Hadley's location in return for freeing an arrested US diplomat. Chinese agents kidnap Hadley, and Bishop cuts all ties to Muir when he discovers his involvement. After realizing Hadley was the target of Bishop's rescue attempt, Muir finally learns that he greatly underestimated Bishop's feelings for her. Running out of time, Muir secretly creates a forged urgent operational directive from the CIA director to commence Operation Dinner Out, a rescue mission spearheaded by Commander Wiley's  U.S. Navy SEAL team, which Bishop laid the groundwork for as a "Plan B" to his own rescue attempt. Using US$282,000 of his life savings and a misappropriated file on Chinese coastline satellite imagery, Muir enlists Duncan's help in bribing a Chinese energy official to cut power to the prison for 30 minutes, during which time the SEAL rescue team retrieves Bishop and Hadley. Bishop, who is rescued at the end of the film 15 minutes before his scheduled execution, realizes Muir was behind his rescue since the name of the plan to rescue him, "Operation Dinner Out", was a reference to a birthday gift that Bishop gave Muir while they were in Lebanon. When the CIA officials are informed of the rescue, Muir has already left the building and is seen driving off into the countryside.