In August 1942, a group of German storm troopers enjoy leave in Porto Cervo, Italy after fighting in North Africa. An awards ceremony is held for several soldiers in the unit, where one platoon's new commander, Leutnant Hans von Witzland  is introduced. When Unteroffizier  Manfred "Rollo" Rohleder  refuses to button up his collar, his Assault Badge is revoked. Following the assembly, Rohleder, Obergefreiter  Fritz Reiser  and the rest are sent to the Eastern Front to fight for Stalingrad. Well-respected Hauptman  Hermann Musk  leads them in an assault on a factory. They take it, but at heavy cost. Later, in an attempt to retrieve the wounded outside, von Witzland proposes a short ceasefire, which the Russians cautiously accept. However, Müller  fires when he thinks he sees the Russians about to attack. In the ensuing firefight, they capture Kolya, a young Russian boy. The next day, the Russians attack again, and Kolya escapes in the confusion. With the radio not working, von Witzland, Emigholtz, Reiser, "GeGe" Müller and Wölk enter the sewers to go for help. Von Witzland gets separated from the others, and captures a Russian soldier named Irina . She offers to lead him to safety in exchange for her freedom, but when he is not looking, she pushes him into a filthy pool and escapes. His men find him. They take the severely wounded Emigholtz to a field hospital, where Reiser forces an orderly at gunpoint to work on him. Emigoltz dies anyway, and they are arrested by Hauptman Haller, who has already clashed with von Witzland. They end up in a penal unit, disarming land mines. Later, when the Soviets surround and trap the Sixth Army in Stalingrad, Musk gives them the opportunity to redeem themselves, back with their old unit. Morale declines as the situation becomes hopeless. Haller orders von Witzland's men to execute unarmed civilians, including Kolya. Von Witzland tries to save the boy, but to no avail. Reiser proposes escaping on a medical evacuation flight by faking injuries. The lieutenant and GeGe Müller go with him. They make it to Pitomnik airport, but the German transport takes off without them under heavy artillery fire. They rejoin the others in their shelter, where they find Musk, who has a badly injured leg. When a German transport aircraft drops a container of supplies, they rush out and eat the food they find. An armed Haller shows up and reminds them that the penalty for looting is death. They shoot him, although he kills Müller. He pleads for his life, telling them about supplies he has hoarded in a house. After Otto kills him, they go to the house. There they find Irina, tied to a bed, as well as shelves full of food and liquor. Von Witzland cuts her free and refuses to let his men rape her. Later, Otto commits suicide. Musk tries to rally the men to rejoin the fighting. Only Rohleder responds; he carries the dying man outside, where he sees a line of Germans marching away: the Sixth Army has surrendered. Irina offers to get von Witzland and Reiser out. As they trudge through the snow, they are spotted by the Soviets, and Irina is killed. The Germans get away, but von Witzland becomes too weak to go on. Reiser stays with him, even after he dies, and freezes to death. The film's epilogue states that in the Battle for Stalingrad, more than a million people were killed in action, starved or froze to death. Of the Sixth Army's 260,000 men, 91,000 were taken prisoner. Of those, only 6,000 returned home years later.