The film begins in 1928, where Professor Langford discovers a massive cover-stone ring in the sands of Giza, Egypt. In the present day, Langford's daughter Catherine offers Egyptologist Daniel Jackson, a down-on-his-luck linguistics professor, the chance to translate ancient Egyptian hieroglyphs that may prove his controversial theory regarding the Pyramid of Khufu. Jackson accepts and travels to a US Air Force installation inside Creek Mountain, Colorado. Jackson translates the hieroglyphs on the stone ring's coverstones, which read: "A million years into the sky is Ra. Sealed and buried for all time, his Stargate." Formerly retired Special Forces Colonel Jack O'Neil arrives to take command of the project and declares it classified. Jackson deduces that the symbols are star constellations that are coordinates for a location within space. The sequence is entered into the stargate, creating a wormhole to a location in another galaxy. Catherine gives Jackson the eye-of-Ra medallion she originally got from the discovery site. After O'Neil leads a team through the Stargate, they find themselves inside a pyramid in the middle of vast sand dunes. Jackson reveals they cannot dial home because the Stargate coordinates to go back to Earth are missing. Some team members stay at the pyramid while Jackson, O'Neil, and others go out and discover a mining village inhabited by humans who, when they see Jackson's medallion, assume them to be gods sent by Ra. Jackson realizes that the people speak a dialect of Ancient Egyptian and begins communicating with them. He discovers that writing is forbidden to these people. The team develops friendships with the people: O'Neil with Skaara; Kawalsky and Ferretti with Skaara's friends; and Jackson  begins an unintended budding romance with Sha'uri, a daughter of the leader. Discovering that Sha'uri has some experience with drawn symbols, Jackson indicates to her that he wants to see more signs, and with her help leaves the city and learns from hieroglyphs in the people's hidden catacombs how the Egyptian god Ra was actually an alien lifeform who had abandoned his dying world to seek a cure for his own mortality, and had finally come to earth, where he "possessed" the body of one human youth like a parasite, and enslaved humans with his advanced technology. While these humans eventually rebelled and buried the Stargate, thousands of others had been taken to the other planet through the Stargate and used to mine the quartzite-like mineral on which all of Ra's technology is based. Fearing another rebellion on this planet, Ra outlawed reading and writing. At this point, the team from Earth discovers the cartouche containing the symbols required to get back to Earth, but the seventh symbol at the bottom is eroded away. O'Neil orders the team to return to the pyramid. A short time later, a huge pyramidal-form spacecraft descends over the pyramid, covering it entirely. All team members in the pyramid are either killed or taken into the pyramidal craft by means of transport-rings made of the power-mineral. O'Neil and Jackson are escorted to the throne room, where they meet Ra. Despite wearing fearsome armor in the forms of Anubis and Horus, Ra's guards and servants are human; a blue-jewelled button on each of their wrist-guards is activated to retract the metallic god-masks over their heads and into their collars. Ra retracts his own imperious metal head-mask. He appears to be a human youth, but the whites of his eyes frequently glow with light. Ra reveals his intention to send the atomic bomb brought by O'Neil, which was to be used to destroy the Stargate to prevent invasion if a threat is discovered, back to Earth; its destructive power is now to be enhanced 100-fold with an accompanying shipment of his quartzite-like material to produce cataclysmic results. O'Neil attempts to disarm the guards and kill Ra, but relents when Ra uses his children courtiers as human shields. Jackson is killed during the altercation. O'Neil is thrown into a dungeon with the captured team members, while Jackson is regenerated in a sarcophagus-like device. Ra states that he will kill Jackson and everyone who has seen him unless Jackson kills the rest of the team to show the villagers that Ra is their one true god. However, once Ra has the local people gathered before the pyramid craft, several young villagers signal to Jackson that they have recovered the team's weapons. Jackson, who has been handed a guard's staff-weapon for the execution, swiftly turns and shoots at Ra while the kids create a diversion. O'Neil, Jackson, and the rest of the team flee the site of Ra's ship and take shelter in a cave with the boys. The next morning, when Skaara draws a picture of the people's victory against Ra, Jackson realizes that part of this drawing depicts the seventh symbol needed to reactivate the Stargate: three moons over a pyramid. O'Neil and the resistance youths disguised as slave-workers, by suddenly overpowering and killing their overseers and retracting the metal god-masks they wore, convince the locals that their "gods" are mere mortals and, with their help, O'Neil, Jackson, and the remaining members of the team make it back to the Stargate hoping to deactivate the bomb. Ra executes one of his guards for failure to find them. When the locals begin an open rebellion against Ra's troops, Ra decides to retreat and prepares his ship for takeoff. Sha'uri is killed in the battle, but Jackson using a dead guard's wrist-mechanism activates the ring transporter and resurrects her in Ra's sarcophagus. Ra meanwhile orders the bomb and minerals to be sent to earth immediately. His chief guard boasts that he will do it himself, activates the transporter rings, descends to the stargate chamber and battles O'Neil. Jackson in the ship takes the unconscious Sha'uri to the transport site and manages to escape execution there by Ra when O'Neil, having overpowered the chief guard and holding him down, activates the guard's ring transporter control-button with his foot, simultaneously transporting the guard's head up to the ship and Jackson with Sha'uri down to the stargate chamber. Ra's craft rises off the pyramid. Unable to deactivate the bomb apparently because Ra had rendered it impossible, O'Neil and Jackson transport the bomb via the rings to Ra's ship in orbit where it explodes, killing Ra. Jackson decides to remain on the planet with Sha'uri, and the team is able to return to Earth through the Stargate. ===Director's cut=== The Director's cut had several scenes which were cut from the theatrical film version. The first such scene took place immediately after the excavation of the Stargate in 1928 and showed petrified Horus guards near the cover stones; the producers had tried to introduce the idea that beings had attempted to come through the Stargate after its burial, but they cut the scene for time concerns.