Interstellar warrior Shep Ramsey  is on a mission to capture intergalactic despot General Suitor . The general kidnapped President Hashina, the ruler of an entire planet. Shep boards Suitor's flagship but is unable to rescue Hashina, who is killed by Suitor. The general then turns into a berserk reptilian alien after being wounded. Shep barely escapes, but is able to blow up the ship as he does so. Due to his failure in saving the President, Shep's superior officer  suggests that he is "stressed out" and should take a vacation. Annoyed, Shep accidentally smashes his control systems and is forced to crash land on Earth. He will have to stay until his spaceship repairs itself. He has little knowledge of Earth's customs, and his temper and sense of justice causes problems with everyone he meets, especially a mime artist he frequently runs into and tries to help such as getting him out of his 'invisible box'. Charlie Wilcox  is a weak-willed architect working for the fawning and hypocritical Adrian Beltz . His wife Jenny  unsuccessfully encourages him to stand up for himself. In order to help out financially, she rents out Charlie's hobby shed as a vacation cabin, which Shep leases. Shep's appearance and behavior makes Charlie nervous and he begins to spy on his guest. He soon discovers Shep's advanced equipment. he turns them on, not knowing that the power sources are traceable and it's whereabouts are now being tracked by Suitor's men. Suitor himself escaped the destruction of his ship and now sends a pair of intergalactic bounty hunters after Shep. Shep also requires several rare crystals to fix his ship, the closest samples of which can be found in Beltz's office. Charlie helps Shep get into his boss's office during a party, but then the bounty hunters corner them. After winning a furious fight, Shep and Charlie head home to repair the ship. After the bounty hunters' defeat, Suitor himself comes to Earth. He takes Charlie's family hostage, forcing Charlie to lead him to Shep. Suitor begins torturing Shep, enjoying himself before he kills the warrior. Finding his courage, Charlie injures Suitor, who then turns into his monstrous form. Physically outmatched, Shep is forced to set his ship to self-destruct and he and Charlie manage to escape the ship's explosion, which destroys Suitor for good. Shep leaves Earth using the bounty hunters' ship. He takes Beltz's secretary, Margie, with him, hoping for a quiet family life. Charlie, though, has become bolder from his experiences; he appears in Beltz's office the following morning, yelling at his boss in front of witnesses, and finally quits his thankless job.