The first part of the film follows the actions of former Colonel and current Sergeant "Nicotine" Crockett , who, after his demotion, deserts his post with Kenny , Francisco  and Tomboy , and robs the protagonists of the previous film. Meanwhile, off the coast of Delaware lies Plum Island, home to two feuding Irish families - the O'Flynns and the Muldoons. The former family, led by Patrick O'Flynn , rounds up a posse and kill the undead of the island, learning that the Muldoons, led by Seamus Muldoon  are keeping their undead loved ones "alive" until a cure is found. A brief standoff ends with the Muldoons exiling Patrick and several other O'Flynns, under the suggestion of Patrick's daughter Janet . Thereafter the National Guard deserters find themselves joined by Boy , and through him learn of Plum Island and visit a nearby dock as instructed, where a gunfight occurs between the O'Flynns and Crockett's group. Francisco successfully commandeers a ferry, biting the finger off an attacking zombie in the process. All O'Flynns except Patrick are killed by zombies and the deserters board the ferry. En route to the island, Patrick reveals that he sent other strangers to Plum Island to anger Muldoon. On the island, they discover that the Muldoons have chained their zombies in imitation of their previous lives, whereas the living sent by Patrick have been killed by the Muldoons. As Patrick attempts to gather allies, two scouting Muldoons attack the deserters, shooting Crockett and Kenny. The latter dies from his wounds, and is shot in the head by Patrick to prevent reanimation. Francisco asks to be shot by Tomboy to prevent his becoming a zombie, whereupon she complies and is captured by Muldoon. It is now revealed that the Janet O'Flynn seen as a zombie was in fact her twin sister Jane, while the true Janet, with Crockett and Boy, joins the O'Flynns' attack on the Muldoons. A standoff occurs at the bridge of the river that separates the two families' land, and the O'Flynn group with Crockett are captured, while Boy and Janet are forced into escape. It is later revealed that Muldoon attempts to persuade the zombies to eat something other than human flesh, as by inducing Jane O'Flynn to consume a horse. When this fails, most of the two parties are consumed by zombies. Muldoon and O'Flynn create a truce immediately broken by Muldoon shooting O'Flynn, who kills him. Crockett and his group attempt to leave the island, whereupon Janet witnesses her sister bite the horse and rushes to tell Crockett's group the news, before being shot by her father moments before his death . Crockett, Boy, and Tomboy escape the island, whereon the zombies are seen eating the horse while the reanimated O'Flynn and Muldoon attempt to kill one another once more.