The film starts with a shabby old man living as a recluse near a famous temple. When he ventures out into the village, he is beaten by the farmers who believe that he is the one who was kidnapping children and killing them some time ago. When they hand him over to the police, the officer in charge identifies him as a once famous musician, Anantha Sharma, hailed as Sangeeta Samrat , who has been missing for four years. The inspector RadhaKrishna informs his aunt  of this and the past of Anantha Sharma is narrated through flashback.  Ananta Sharma is a widely respected Carnatic singer with a large ego. This is established when he rejects the Padma Shri bestowed upon him by the Government of India, as he believes that the other awardees are not worthy to be mentioned with him. Gangadhar  lives in the same village. He rejects the society's norms  and spends his time sitting by the riverside. The river inspires him to sing many songs in different tunes. His music teacher, also the policeman's aunt, recognizes his natural talent and tries to nurture it. His school teacher  is also fond of Gangadhar. Gangadhar wants to become a great singer like Ananta Sharma and his father  encourages him. His day comes when Anantha Sharma is honored in an auditorium. Gangadhar sings a song  in honor of Anantha Sharma which many consider to be much better than any of Anantha Sharma's four decades of work. The boy is hailed as a child prodigy by everyone, including the music teacher's wife. Ananta Sharma wants to imprison Gangadhar's talents. So he asks Gangadhar to stay in his house and learn music as one must be well-experienced to sing on stage. He goes to the extent of copying one of his tunes and he sings it on stage to get back his lost glory. But Gangadhar and Ananta's wife  find out. He now feels guilty and defends himself by saying that he did it as he was afraid this child would destroy his name and fame. In this emotional moment, he suffers a heart-attack. To show his gratitude towards his adopted mother , Gangadhar kills himself. For this means that there is no competition for Anantha Sharma's title of "Sangeeta Samrat." But the event shocks the villagers and they start calling him a murderer. To escape the public anger and insults, he runs away to be a recluse. . Ananta Sharma is still unconscious while in the police station. When he awakes, he finds himself in the house of Gangadhar's music teacher. The husband of music teacher tells him that they have forgiven him and asks him to go back to his house. At his house, he finds his wife  conducting music classes in his house  for little children. He sits down amongst the children learning the music basics from his wife. The movie ends with a scene when a young girl next to him chides him gently by correcting his way of singing a basic song note.