Set during the height of the Cold War, The Shoes of the Fisherman opens as protagonist Kiril Pavlovich Lakota , the Metropolitan Archbishop of Lviv, is unexpectedly set free after twenty years in a Siberian labor camp by his former jailer, Piotr Ilyich Kamenev , now the premier of the Soviet Union. He is sent to Rome, where the elderly fictional Pope Pius XIII  raises him to the cardinalate in the title of St. Athanasius. Lakota initially declines, but reluctantly accepts the promotion. When the Pontiff suddenly collapses and dies, the process of a papal conclave begins, and Cardinal Lakota participates as one of the electors. During the sede vacante, two cardinals in particular, Cardinal Leone  and Cardinal Rinaldi  are shown to be papabile. After seven ballots of deadlock, Lakota finds himself elected Pope as a compromise candidate  by acclamation after the Cardinals, unable to decide between the leading candidates, interview him and are impressed by his ideas and his humility. Lakota takes the name of Pope Kiril . Meanwhile, the world is on the brink of nuclear war due to a Chinese-Soviet feud made worse by a famine caused by trade restrictions brought against China by the United States. The evening after his election, Pope Kiril, with the help of his personal aide Gelasio , sneaks out of the Vatican and explores the city of Rome without being recognized. Later, the Pope returns to the Soviet Union to meet privately with Kamenev and Chairman Peng  of China to discuss the ongoing crisis. Pope Kiril realizes, however, that if the troubles in China continue, the cost would be a war that could ultimately rip the world apart. Knowing this, he must seek to convince the West as well as the Catholic Church to open up its resources to aid. At his papal coronation, Kiril removes his tiara  and states this intent, much to the delight of the crowds in St. Peter's Square below. A major secondary plot in the novel and the film is the Pope's relationship with a theologian and scientist, Father Telemond . The Pope becomes a close personal friend of Telemond . To his deep regret, in his official capacity, he must allow the Holy Office to censure Telemond for his heterodox views. To the Pope's deep grief, the shock of the censure, combined with his chronic medical problems, eventually kills Father Telemond, who has been slowly dying all this time from a cerebral aneurysm.