A superhuman criminal named Gabriel YuLaw , once an officer of the "Multiverse Authority"  that polices interdimensional travel , seeks to hunt down and kill all other variations of himself in alternate universes. By killing all of his other selves,  and absorbing their life energies into himself, he believes he will become "The One", a godlike being. YuLaw is briefly captured by MVA agents Rodecker  and Funsch , only to escape from captivity during the final phase of his sentence to life in a penal colony. The last known alternate, Gabriel  Law, works in the Los Angeles County Sheriff's Department. For two years he has been experiencing increases in strength, speed and mental ability but neither he nor his wife, T.K. Law  , can understand why. While transporting a snitching prisoner for the Sheriff's Department, Gabe "feels" Yulaw's presence just before he attempts to kill Gabriel Law. Yulaw escapes, with Gabe giving chase and leaping a very high wall – which is humanly impossible. Upon landing on the other side Yulaw faces Gabe and shoots him, but not fatally. Going in for the kill, Yulaw is interrupted by Rodecker and Funsch. Gabe Law sees Yulaw, who is identical to him in every way. Being unfamiliar with interdimensional travel between universes, Yulaw's appearance is incomprehensible. At the hospital again Gabe feels Yulaw's presence. There is another fight and Rodecker and Funsch again intervene. Yulaw deters them from shooting him because if he is killed, then Gabe will pose a problem because he would then be left as the only "One". Dressed alike and identical in every way, Gabe and Yulaw's battle confuse Gabe's Sheriff Department colleagues. Both Gabe and Yulaw manage to escape the hospital. Rodecker is faced with a dilemma: they are chasing two superhumans, they cannot kill either one. Funsch insists that YuLaw, as the instigator, must be dealt with in a more aggressive manner. Rodecker makes a fateful decision to "go way off procedure" and split the team. Rodecker pursues Yu Law and is killed. Funsch catches up with Gabe and tells him about the multiverse and why he has become stronger. Yulaw finds Gabe's residence where TK, believing it is Gabe, attempts to protect him, but she senses he is not really Gabe. Gabe arrives only to have Yulaw force him to watch while he kills her. Funsch finds Gabe and they team up to find Yulaw at the next occurrence of a wormhole – an industrial plant. Yulaw, Gabe Law and Funsch arrive at the industrial plant, where the final battle between Gabe and Yulaw takes place. Ultimately Gabe is victorious, but all three are caught in the wormhole and travel back to the MVA headquarters in the Alpha Universe. YuLaw is transported immediately to the prison colony universe after a last-ditch attempt to switch places with Gabe. The MVA then prepares to send Gabriel back to his own universe where he will be arrested and put in prison for the murders Yulaw committed, but Agent Funsch instead sends him to a universe similar to Gabe's past via another wormhole, after Gabe told him about the events which led up to him meeting his wife. Yulaw, now in the penal colony, declares his intent to still become the one; standing at the top of a Ziggurat in the Hades universe, in order to prove his capability of becoming the one, YuLaw commences to battle oncoming waves of hundreds of provoked fighters approaching the Ziggurat as the credits roll.