In 1876, Captain Nathan Algren  is traumatized by massacring Native Americans in the Indian Wars and has become an alcoholic to stave off the memories. Algren is approached by former colleague Zebulon Gant , who takes him to meet Algren's former Colonel Bagley , whom Algren despises for ordering the massacre. On behalf of businessman Mr. Omura , Bagley offers Algren a job training conscripts of the new Meiji government of Japan to suppress a samurai rebellion that is opposed to Western influence, led by Katsumoto . Despite struggling with the painful memories of having already crushed a tribal rebellion, Algren accepts solely for payment. In Japan he keeps a journal and is accompanied by British translator Simon Graham . Despite Algren's objections, Omura has Bagley order the peasant conscripts to fight early and they are routed when engaging the samurai. Gant is killed and Algren is captured after killing leading samurai warrior Hirotaro. Katsumoto is reminded of a vision of a tiger while watching Algren fight with a tiger-embroidered spear and orders his capture. Taken to the samurai village, Algren is treated by Hirotaro's widow Taka and Katsumoto's son, Nobutada  and recovers from his trauma. He begins to converse with Katsumoto, study swordsmanship under warrior Ujio  and apologizes to Taka for Hirotaro's death which she accepts because of the honor of battle. Growing closer to her and her children, he later helps defend the village from a night attack by Omura's ninja. In spring, Algren is taken back to Tokyo as promised. The Imperial Japanese army have become better organized with American equipment and Omura offers Algren command if he reveals information on the rebels. Algren declines, so privately Omura orders his death. Katsumoto offers his counsel to the young Emperor, but finds the Emperor's control is weak. When Katsumoto refuses to obey the new law to not display swords, he is arrested. Algren frees Katsumoto with the assistance of Ujio, Nobutada and Graham. Nobutada is severely wounded as they escape, sacrificing himself to slow the guards. Katsumoto mourns, but receives word that a large Imperial Army group led by Omura and Bagley will engage them. Five hundred samurai are rallied as Algren references the Battle of Thermopylae. On the eve of battle, Algren is presented with a katana, kisses Taka and wears Hirotaro's red armor as a symbol of respect to her. In battle, the samurai fall back, preventing the Imperial army from using their full firepower. As they expect, Omura orders the infantry to advance, straight into their fire trap. The samurai then unleash a rain of arrows as a wave of swordsmen, including Katsumoto and Algren, attack. A second Imperial infantry wave advances, only to be countered by Ujio's samurai cavalry; a savage melee ensues, leaving many dead on both sides before the Imperial forces retreat. Realizing that fresh Imperial forces are coming, the samurai resolve to fight to the death in a final charge. Algren hurls his sword at Bagley, fatally wounding his nemesis, but the samurai are finally cut down by Gatling guns. Moved by the sight of his dying countrymen, the Imperial captain stops the fire, defying Omura's orders. Katsumoto, observing Bushido, asks Algren to assist in his seppuku. Katsumoto dies and the Imperial soldiers kneel and bow around the fallen samurai. Later, the American ambassador prepares to have the Emperor sign a treaty but an injured Algren enters and interrupts the proceedings, offering Katsumoto's sword to the Emperor who comes to realize that while Japan must modernize, it must chart its own path and never forget its own history and traditions. The Emperor dismisses the American ambassador and confiscates Omura's fortunes to be given to the people. Graham, who was given Algren's journal to help write a book, states that Algren found peace by returning to Taka and the village.