Samantha Caine  is a mother and schoolteacher with a seemingly normal life in the small town of Honesdale, Pennsylvania. Eight years previously, she was found pregnant and badly injured, suffering complete amnesia after being found washed up on a beach in New Jersey. Since that time, she has hired a series of private investigators to try to uncover her past with no success, the latest  being wisecracking, ethically challenged private investigator Mitch Henessey . When television footage of a parade she participated in is broadcast, a one-eyed convict, "One-Eyed" Jack , recognizes her immediately and escapes on a mission of revenge. Caine is injured in a car accident when her car hits a deer in the middle of the road and crashes into a tree, and begins displaying unexpected skills and ruthlessness, manifesting in surprising knife-wielding abilities and uncharacteristic harshness directed toward her daughter Caitlin . When Jack suddenly attacks her, she dispatches him with lethal self-defense skills she was not aware she possessed, culminating in snapping his neck with a cold-blooded rabbit punch. Meantime, Henessy has had a break in her case—a suitcase has been found in the attic of a boarding house Caine briefly stayed at years before, discovered after the landlady died. With Hennessy and information found in the suitcase, Caine seeks out Dr. Nathan Waldman . During the trip, Caine discovers a disassembled Remington 700 in a hidden compartment in the suitcase and smoothly assembles it out of conditioned reflex. Though Hennessy displays strong misgivings at where the situation is headed , Caine talks him into pressing on. When they meet Waldman, he reveals that Caine is really Charlene Elizabeth "Charly" Baltimore, an assassin for the CIA who went missing eight years ago. Hennessy is doubtful of this, as well as Waldman's sanity, until armed men who've been narrowing in on them begin shooting. Caine/Baltimore's skills help them escape. Baltimore and Hennessy drive to an isolated farm to visit Luke , a man to whom a note in the suitcase led her to believe she was engaged. They learn too late that Luke, aka "Daedalus", was actually a target she was assigned to assassinate eight years earlier . Daedelus is pleasantly surprised that Baltimore, Hennessy, and Waldman have delivered themselves to him. Waldman is killed, Hennessy is imprisoned and beaten, while Baltimore is tortured for information: She is stripped down to her slip, bra, and panties, bound with rope by her hands and feet to a waterwheel, and repeatedly lowered into ice cold water until near drowning. During this process, her real identity fully resurfaces she, kills Daedelus, escapes, kills his henchmen, and frees Hennessy. Although Charly Baltimore initially disdains her life as 'Samantha Caine' , Hennessy forces her to recognize that she actually liked her time as Samantha as it was the first time she was truly content with herself. While attempting to resolve her conflicted feelings about her past, Baltimore discovers that her former boss at the CIA, Leland Perkins , has allied with a psychological-operations specialist named Timothy , who is a former lover of Charly, in a false flag plot to detonate a chemical bomb in downtown Niagara Falls, New York, frame "Islamic" terrorists for the crime, and thus secure more funding. She and a still-reluctant Hennessy set out to thwart the plot and rescue Caitlin, who has been kidnapped on Perkins' order while his henchmen were trying to kill Baltimore. Baltimore and Hennessy attack the operation's staging area, where the truck bomb is being prepared. Along the way, Baltimore confronts Timothy with her now-restored memories of how she was shot in the head and left for dead by Jack  and reveals to Timothy that Caitlin is in fact "his" daughter. Timothy is dubious until he looks in Caitlin's eyes, recognizing their similarity to his own, but decides to kill Baltimore and Caitlin anyway and continue the operation. Baltimore escapes with Caitlin and, with Hennessy's help, thwarts the operation, killing Timothy's henchmen and ultimately Timothy himself. In an epilogue, Baltimore has returned to her assumed identity as Samantha Caine, declining an offer to rejoin the CIA. For his part, Hennessy enjoys the publicity attracted by his role in the crisis, and is last seen being interviewed by Larry King.