 Computer programmer Thomas Anderson  is secretly a hacker known as "Neo". He is restless, eager and driven to learn the meaning of cryptic references to the "Matrix" appearing on his computer. A female hacker named Trinity  confirms that a man named Morpheus  can help him; however, three Agents, led by Agent Smith , arrest Neo and attempt to prevent him from collaborating with Morpheus. Undeterred, Neo meets with Morpheus and agrees to follow him by swallowing an offered red pill. Neo abruptly awakens in a liquid-filled vessel, connected along with millions of other people to an elaborate electrical structure. He is rescued by Morpheus and brought aboard a levitating ship called the Nebuchadnezzar. Morpheus tells Neo that humans are fighting against intelligent machines that were created early in the 21st century and have since taken control of the Earth's surface. The machines harvest the bioelectrical energy of humans, who are kept docile within the "Matrix" – a simulation of the world as it was in 1999. Neo has lived in this simulated world since birth; in reality, the year is closer to 2199. Morpheus and his crew belong to a group of free humans who "unplug" others from the Matrix and recruit them to their rebellion against the Machines. They are able to connect themselves to the Matrix and enter the simulated reality, where they can gain superhuman abilities by using their understanding of its true nature to manipulate its physical laws. Neo undergoes combat training to become a member of the rebellion. He is warned that fatal injuries within the Matrix will also kill one's physical body, and that the Agents he previously met are powerful sentient computer programs that eliminate human threats to the system. Morpheus believes that Neo is "the One", a man prophesied to end the war. The group enters the Matrix to visit the Oracle , who predicted the emergence of the One. The Oracle implies that Neo is not the One, but warns that Neo must soon choose between his life and that of Morpheus. As the group prepares to exit the Matrix, they are ambushed by Agents and tactical police, leading to the death of crew member Mouse . Morpheus allows himself to be captured to let Neo and the crew escape. As the rest of the crew heads to another telephone to leave the Matrix, they learn that their fellow crew member Cypher  has betrayed them. Disillusioned with the real world, Cypher had earlier made a deal with the Agents for a permanent return to the comfortable life of the Matrix, in exchange for handing over Morpheus to the Agents. Aboard the Nebuchadnezzar, Cypher murders crew members Switch, Apoc and Dozer before he is killed by Dozer's younger brother Tank . In the Matrix, the Agents drug and interrogate Morpheus in an attempt to learn his access codes to the mainframe computer in Zion, the humans' subterranean refuge in the real world. Neo and Trinity return to the Matrix and rescue Morpheus; in the process, Neo becomes more confident in his ability to manipulate the Matrix, and is ultimately able to dodge bullets fired at him. Morpheus and Trinity use a telephone to exit the Matrix, but Neo is ambushed by Agent Smith before he can leave. He stands his ground and defeats Smith, but is forced to flee when the Agent comes back in another body. In the real world, "sentinel" machines converge on the Nebuchadnezzar. In the Matrix, just before reaching another exit, Neo is shot and killed by Agent Smith. Trinity, who is standing over Neo's body in the real world, whispers that the Oracle told her she would fall in love with the One. She kisses Neo and restores his life. In the Matrix, Neo revives with new power to perceive and control the simulated world, and effortlessly destroys Agent Smith, before returning to the real world in time for the ship's EMP weapon to destroy the attacking sentinels. The film ends with Neo back in the Matrix, making a telephone call promising that he will demonstrate to the people imprisoned in the Matrix that "anything is possible." He hangs up the phone and flies into the sky.