Passing a stagecoach way station on his journey into town, Pat Brennan agrees to return with some storebought candy for the friendly station manager's young son. At a ranch where he once worked, the cheerful Brennan loses his horse in a wager and is forced to walk home. He gets a welcomed rescue from stagecoach driver Rintoon, hired to transport the newlyweds Willard and Doretta Mims. Doretta is a plain woman, but the daughter of the richest man in the state. It tickles Brennan, who tells Rintoon this is the first time he's ever been on a honeymoon. When they stop at the way station, they are mistaken for the regular stage by three outlaws, Chink, Billy Jack, and their leader, Frank Usher. Having already murdered the station manager and his son, the gang kills Rintoon when he reaches for a shotgun. Terrified of sharing the same fate, Mims suggests to the outlaws that ransoming his wife would be far more profitable than robbing the stage. Frank likes the idea. He makes one mistake, though -- he takes a liking to Brennan. He later tells Brennan that, under different circumstances, they might have been friends. Frank takes the woman and Brennan to a remote hideout while ordering Billy Jack to ride along with Mims and deliver a ransom note to Doretta's father, demanding $50,000. Mims returns, saying his father-in-law has agreed and is rounding up the money. Mims is told he is no longer needed and can leave. A coward, he does not even bother to say goodbye to his new wife, disgusting Frank. As he rides off, Mims is shot down. Brennan knows full well that he and Mrs. Mims can expect the same fate once the ransom is paid. He tells the distraught widow to collect herself and be ready to take any opportunity that presents itself. He then takes her in his arms. She hesitates, then kisses him. She confesses she married Mims because she was getting older and did not want to be alone. Frank leaves Billy Jack and Chink to guard the hostages while he goes off to collect the money. Brennan plants the thought that their ringleader might just ride off with all the money, so Chink leaves the camp to keep an eye on Frank. Brennan suggests to Billy Jack that he take advantage of Mrs. Mims, a lonely woman denied even her wedding night. Billy Jack does indeed try to force himself on Mrs. Mims, whereupon Brennan overpowers him and shoots him dead. Chink hears the shots and turns back. Brennan kills him. Frank then returns with the money, but when Brennan sneaks up behind him, surrenders his gun and the money, gambling that Brennan will not shoot him in the back. He slowly mounts his horse and rides off. However, he turns around and comes back firing, forcing Brennan to kill him. As Brennan and Mrs. Mims begin the long journey back side by side, she timidly puts her arm around his.