The story, narrated by a criminologist, tells the tale of newly-engaged couple Brad Majors and Janet Weiss, who find themselves lost and with a flat tire on a cold and rainy late November evening. Seeking a phone with which to call for help, Brad and Janet walk to a nearby castle, where they discover a group of strange and outlandish people who are holding an Annual Transylvanian Convention. Brad and Janet watch as the Transylvanians, servants and a tap-dancing groupie dance the film's signature song, "Time Warp". They are soon swept into the world of Dr. Frank-N-Furter, a self-proclaimed "Sweet Transvestite" from Transsexual, Transylvania. The ensemble of convention attendees also includes servants Riff Raff , his sister Magenta, and a groupie named Columbia. Frank claims to have discovered the "secret to life itself". His creation, Rocky Horror, is brought to life. The ensuing celebration is soon interrupted by Eddie , an ex-delivery boy, partial brain donor to Rocky, and Columbia's lover, who rides out of a deep freeze on a motorcycle. In a jealous rage, Frank corners him and kills him with an ice axe. He then departs with Rocky to a bridal suite off of the laboratory. Brad and Janet are shown to separate bedrooms where each is visited and seduced by Frank, who poses as Brad  and then as Janet . Janet, upset and emotional, wanders off to look for Brad, who she discovers, via a television monitor, is having a post-coital chat with Frank. She then discovers Rocky, cowering in his birth tank, hiding from Riff Raff, who has been tormenting him. While tending to his wounds, Janet becomes intimate with Rocky, as Magenta and Columbia watch from their bedroom monitor. After discovering that his creation is missing, Frank, Brad and Riff Raff return to the lab, where Frank learns that an intruder has entered the building. Dr. Everett Scott, Brad and Janet's old high school science teacher, has come looking for his nephew, Eddie, but Frank suspects that Dr. Scott investigates UFOs for the government. Upon learning of Brad and Janet's connection to Scott, Frank suspects them of working for him. Frank, Dr. Scott, Brad, and Riff Raff then discover Janet and Rocky together under the sheets in Rocky's birth tank, upsetting Frank and Brad. Rocky and the guests are served dinner, which they soon realise has been prepared from Eddie's mutilated body. Janet runs screaming into Rocky's arms and is slapped and chased through the halls of the castle by a jealous Frank. Janet, Brad, Dr. Scott, Rocky and Columbia all meet in Frank's lab, where Frank captures them with the Medusa Transducer, transforming them into statues. They are then forced to perform a live cabaret floor show and have a semi-orgy in the pool , with Frank as the leader. The performance is interrupted by Riff Raff and Magenta, who stage a coup and announce their plan to return to their home planet. In the process, they kill Columbia, Rocky and Frank. They release Brad, Janet and Dr. Scott, and then depart by lifting off in the Castle itself. The narrator then finishes the film by concluding that the human race is equivalent to insects crawling on the planet's surface.