The once-successful steel mills of Sheffield, South Yorkshire, have shut down and most of the employees have been laid off. Former steel workers Gary "Gaz" Schofield and Dave Horsefall have resorted to stealing scrap metal from the abandoned mills to sell. Gaz is facing trouble from his ex-wife, Mandy, over child support payments that he's failed to make since losing his job. Gaz's son, Nathan, loves his father but wishes they could do more "normal stuff" in their time together. One day, Gaz spots a crowd of women lined up outside a local club to see a Chippendale's striptease act. He gets the idea to form his own strip tease group using local men in hopes of making enough money to pay off his child support obligations. The first to join the group is Lomper, a security guard at Harrison's, the steel mill where Dave and Gaz once worked. After finally being laid off, Lomper attempts to commit suicide, but is rescued by Dave who convinces him to join the group. Next they recruit Gerald Cooper, a former manager at the plant, who has been hiding from his wife the fact that he's been laid off. Gaz and Dave see Gerald and his wife, Linda, at a dance class and recruit him to teach them some actual dance moves. The four men hold an open audition to recruit more members and settle on Horse, an older man who is nevertheless a good dancer, and Guy, who can't dance but proves to be well-endowed when he exposes himself to the four men, and even Nathan. When they are approached by local women who have heard of their show, Gaz declares that their show will be better than the Chippendales dancers because they'll go "the Full Monty" and remove all their clothes. With not much left to lose, and a sold-out show, the men decide to go for it for one night. Dave, having re-gained his confidence with help from his wife, Jean, joins the rest of the group minutes before they go on stage. However, Gaz himself refuses to do it because there are men in the audience, even when Nathan, who has secretly come, tells him that his ex-wife was there. Nathan later forces his hand and Gaz, proud of his son, performs in front of the audience and Mandy who seems to see him in a new light. The film ends with the group on stage in front of a packed house, stripping to Tom Jones' version of You Can Leave Your Hat On .