Rachel Marron  is an Oscar-nominated music and movie superstar who is being stalked and sent death threats. Frank Farmer  is a former Secret Service Special Agent who served as part of the presidential protection detail during the presidencies of Jimmy Carter and Ronald Reagan. Frank is haunted by the fact that he was not there when Reagan was shot because he was off duty at the time. He is now a highly successful private and professional bodyguard who protects corporate VIPs. He is hired by Rachel's manager, Bill Devaney , to protect her after she receives a number of threats against her life and a small bomb detonates in her dressing room.The Bodyguard , IMDB.com The film follows Rachel's singing career and family life. Frank is unsure about accepting the job because he sees Rachel as a spoiled diva who is oblivious to the threats against her life. Rachel's handlers had kept the bomb in the dressing room secret from her. At first, Rachel looks upon Frank as paranoid and his protection techniques intrusive. Rachel's existing bodyguard Tony  resents Frank's presence. But at a concert where Rachel is performing there is a riot and Frank successfully protects her from danger; as a result of his protection, Rachel falls in love with Frank. He initially tries to keep the relationship professional, but the two sleep together. However, recognizing that their relationship may compromise his protection of her, Frank breaks off their affair. Hurt, Rachel begins to push Frank's buttons by violating their security routines and attempting to sleep with his former Secret Service co-worker, Greg Portman . After she has personal contact with her stalker via a creepy phone call, Rachel realizes that she must put her trust in Frank ahead of her own desire for success. She finally recognizes the seriousness of the situation and cancels the rest of her tour. Frank, Rachel, Rachel's driver Henry , Rachel's son Fletcher , and her sister Nikki  then travel to Frank's father's home, which is a large log cabin in the mountains by a lake. Frank's dad, Herb Farmer  is a semi-retired attorney who welcomes the group to his home. At the mountain retreat, Nikki attempts to seduce Frank, and becomes angry when her advances are refused. Fletcher is almost killed the next day, when a bomb explodes inside the boat he had been riding in moments before. After finding footprints around the cabin, and finding the automobiles sabotaged, they realize Rachel's stalker has followed them. They lock down the house for the night, with plans to leave in the morning. It is then revealed that Rachel's obsessive stalker and the person trying to kill her are not the same person, when an upset and drunken Nikki admits that in a drug-induced jealous fit she hired a hitman to kill Rachel, but that the letters from the stalker came before that. After Fletcher was almost killed, Nikki realized the hitman she hired would kill anyone to get to his target, including her beloved nephew. However, she cannot call it off because she does not know the killer's identity. The hitman breaks into the house, Nikki tries to stop him, and he shoots and kills her before escaping. Frank ensures that his father, who is armed with a large caliber revolver, has secured the rest of the group on the second floor, then pursues the killer into the woods. Frank shoots at the hitman, but the hitman escapes through the dark woods. Frank learns the next day, from his Secret Service colleagues, that they have apprehended the stalker and were interviewing him when Nikki was shot. A few days later, after Nikki's funeral, Rachel attends the 67th annual Academy Awards, where she is nominated as best actress. As Rachel is accepting the award for Best Actress, the assassin attempts to murder her again with a gun hidden inside a video camera. Frank jumps in front of her to save her life, and is shot himself. Before losing consciousness, Frank fires a shot through the camera lens, penetrating the eye of the hitman, who is revealed to be Greg Portman. During the ensuing melee, Portman gouges out Tony's eye, but both he and Frank survive their injuries. Frank sees Rachel off at the airport. His arm is in a sling. Frank has arranged for another protection detail to augment Tony, who is back on the job wearing a black eye patch. Frank's duty having been fulfilled by successfully protecting Rachel, they part with a kiss. Frank then moves on to his next assignment.The Bodyguard script at IMSDb.com