The film begins with the looting of a ship already captured and badly mauled, by the pirates. After relieving the ship and crew of valuables, the pirates fire the ship, blowing up the gun powder on board, sinking her.The Black Pirate at silentera.com database While the pirates celebrate, two survivors wash up on an island, an old man and his son. Before dying, the older man  gives his signet ring to his son . His son buries him, vowing vengeance. The Pirate Captain and Lieutenant bring some crew to the other side of the same island to bury some of their plunder. They then plan to murder the other pirates: "Dead men tell no tales." But first, Fairbanks appears as the "Black Pirate", who offers to join their company and fight their best man to prove his worth. After much fighting, the Black Pirate kills the Pirate Captain. The Pirate Lieutenant sneers, and says there is more to being a pirate than sword tricks. To further prove his worth, the Black Pirate says he will capture the next ship of prey single-handed, which he does. He then uses his wits to prevent the pirates from blowing up the ship along with the crew and passengers, suggesting that they hold the ship for ransom. When a "princess" is discovered on board, he urges the crew to use her as a hostage to insure their ransom will be paid, as long as she remains "spotless and unharmed". The pirates cheer the Black Pirate, and want to name him captain. The Pirate Lieutenant jeers that they can wait to see if the ransom is paid by noon the next day. If the ransom is not paid, the "Princess" will become the Pirate Lieutenant's prize and the Black Pirate will walk the plank. It is a long wait. The Pirate Lieutenant tries to attack the "Princess", kill the Black Pirate, and destroy the ship before the deadline. But the Black Pirate and Governor arrive with ships and troops to stop the pirates. There is a fierce fight, with the outcome uncertain. In the end, the Black Pirate is revealed to be a Duke, and the "Princess" he loves a noble Lady. Even the old one-armed pirate Mac Tavish is moved to tears of joy by the happy ending.http://www.silentsaregolden.com/featurefolder5/BPcommentary.html