 Mr. and Mrs. Cherrywood are a middle-aged couple who run an orphanage. Mr. Cherrywood tells the orphans a story about the Care Bears and Care-a-lot, their home in the clouds. In the story, Care Bears Friend Bear and Secret Bear travel looking for people to cheer up. They meet Kim and Jason, two lonely orphaned children. Friend and Secret introduce themselves and remind the children of their ambitions; neither of them takes interest. At an amusement park, another Care Bear, Tenderheart, spots a magician's apprentice named Nicholas. While unloading a trunk of goods for his master, the "Great Fettucini", Nicholas finds an old book with a diary-style lock. When he unlocks the book, an evil spirit appears as a woman's face, and starts corrupting him. With Nicholas' help, the spirit lays waste to the amusement park, and begins a quest to remove all caring from the world. Back at Care-a-lot, some of the other bears are working on their new invention: the Rainbow Rescue Beam, a portal that can send any Bear to Earth and back. The two youngest bears, Baby Hugs and Baby Tugs, interfere with the machine and bring forth a group of unexpected visitors—Friend Bear, Secret Bear, Kim, and Jason. The Bears introduce themselves to the children, and give them a tour of their home. Tenderheart returns before a "Cloud Quake", caused by the spirit, ruins Care-a-lot; he informs the others of Nicholas' troubles on Earth. Using the Rescue Beam, he sends Kim and Jason to the park, along with Friend Bear and Secret Bear; the four of them end up in the Forest of Feelings when the portal malfunctions. From a nearby river, the rest of the Care Bears begin searching for the group aboard a cloud ship. Within the Forest, the children and their friends are introduced to Brave Heart Lion and Playful Heart Monkey, two of the Care Bear Cousins. Later on, the other Bears discover more of these creatures, among them Cozy Heart Penguin, Lotsa Heart Elephant, Swift Heart Rabbit, and Bright Heart Raccoon. During their stay, the spirit attacks them in several guises—as a spearfish, a tree, and an eagle. After the Care Bears and their Cousins defeat the spirit, the friends venture back to Earth to save Nicholas from its influence. At the park, Nicholas obtains the ingredients for his spell against the children and the creatures. After he casts it, the Care Bears and company engage in a long battle. The bears shoot beams of bright light on him, forming their "Stare"; the Cousins help with their "Call". As the creatures' power drains away, Nicholas and the spirit briefly regain control. After Kim and Jason assist him, the apprentice finally realises his misdeeds; with Secret Bear's help, he closes the spirit's face back into the book and saves himself, the park, and the world. Nicholas thanks the group and reunites with Fettucini, while Tenderheart Bear inducts the Care Bear Cousins into the Care Bear Family, and Kim and Jason find new parents at one of Nicholas' shows. As Mr. Cherrywood finishes his story, his wife reveals his first name: Nicholas. Tenderheart Bear, who has been listening from outside a window, returns to Care-a-lot in his Cloud Mobile. The film ends with every member of the Care Bear Family waving good-bye.