Tommy Johnson  is a member of a violent Chelsea hooligan firm. His friends and fellow hooligans include Tommy's best friend Rod King , Billy Bright, a "total f**king psycho", and Zeberdee , a volatile younger member who loves powder, and Raf , who also hoovers the powder and is a thieving little c**t. Tommy spends his days drinking, using drugs, womanizing, and most of all, kicking peoples heads in, much to the dismay of his grandfather Bill Farrell , a pensioner and veteran who plans to leave England with his best friend Albert . Tommy begins to have second thoughts about the direction of his life during a fight with the Tottenham firm. Tommy, Billy, and Rod are arrested for assaulting two Stoke City fans while traveling to an away match. This draws the ire of Harris, the leader of the firm, whose attempts to keep order are thwarted by Bright's violent outbursts. Rod begins a relationship with the court clerk at their arraignment, she pressures him to skip his weekend meets. Zeberdee and his friend Raff accidentally rob Billy's house and are forced to stand in his living room while Billy's children throw darts at them. Billy deals with his increasing loneliness after he overhears Harris discussing his irrelevance. Bill's plan to retire to Australia is temporarily thwarted when Albert dies the night before they are to leave. Early in the film, Tommy and Rod are caught by some noncey brother of one of the gash they picked up at a club, and escape by smashing his canister in with a cricket bat. The brother turns out to be the brother of the rival Millwall firm's leader, Fred , who is hunting Tommy throughout the film, just wants to find him and get back to deep south. The film culminates in a pitched battle between the Chelsea and Millwall firms. Rod  leaves a dinner with his girlfriend's parents to attend the meet. Tommy is brutally beaten by Fred and a group of Millwall hooligans, and winds up in the hospital with Bill, who suffered a heart attack. At the close of the film, Tommy decides that his place is at the firm with his friends, Rod breaks up with his tart, Bill moves to Australia, and Billy Bright is incarcerated after being arrested at the Millwall meet. Zeberdee is killed by a drug dealer he robbed earlier in the film, fulfilling recurring dreams that plagued Tommy throughout the film. A recurring subplot concerns a racist taxi driver  the characters encounter at various points in the film, who at the end of the film, is knighted by the Queen and given a seat in parliament.