Petra von Kant  is a prominent fashion designer based in Bremen. The film is almost totally restricted to her apartment's bedroom, decorated by a huge reproduction of Poussin's Midas and Bacchus  depicting naked and partially clothed men. The room also contains numerous life-size mannequins for her work, though only her assistant Marlene  is shown using them. Petra's marriages have ended in death or divorce. Her first husband, Pierre, was a great love, who died in a car accident while Petra was pregnant; the second began the same way, but ended in disgust. Petra lives with Marlene, another designer, whom she treats as a slave, and reveals her sadistic side by making codependent relationships. Von Kant is shown being awoken by Marlene. She proceeds to begin her day and get dressed while her assistant attends to her. Von Kant makes a phone call to her mother, makes demands of Marlene , and dons a brown wig just before she receives a visitor. Petra talks to Sidonie , her cousin, about her male relationships. Meanwhile, Marlene does the work and acts as hostess. Karin Thimm , Sidonie's friend, joins the women. Karin newly returned to Germany after residing in Sydney for five years, is a desirable, 23-year-old woman. Petra is immediately attracted to Karin, and at this first meeting, suggests Karin becomes a model. Karin agrees to return the following day, but Sidonie has to leave and Karin follows her. Petra quickly falls madly in love with Karin. The next day, with Marlene showing clearer signs of frustration, but still typing, Petra, now wearing a larger and dark wig, offers to support Karin while she trains to be a model. Karin's husband has remained in Sydney, though Petra is only momentarily put off by this revelation. The women soon show their incompatibility. Petra had a happy childhood, and came from a home where the good things in life were always stressed. Karin's father was a toolmaker, and she always felt neglected by her parents. Petra loved mathematics and algebra at school, but Karin could never understand arithmetic and the point of substituting letters for numbers. Petra has a daughter, whom she rarely sees, but reassures herself that her daughter is at the best possible boarding school. Karin's parents are now both dead. Her father killed Karin's mother, then hanged himself. She says people reject her when they find out about her history, but Petra now admits to a great affection for her, even stronger after having heard her family history. Petra orders Marlene to get a bottle of Sekt. Karin goes into more details about her parents death. Her father was made redundant because of his age, though it is clear he was probably alcoholic, and the deaths occurred when he was in a drunken stupor. Karin feels she has drifted in her life, her husband in Sydney treated her as a slave, and offered no reprieve from her past, but Petra insists this is about to change. Marlene returns with the bottle of Sekt in a tumbler, silently returns to her typing, and the other two women toast each other. Petra promises to make Karin a great model. Marlene, previously hidden by a curtain, stops typing and glares at Petra. While listening to a record, Petra says life is predestined, people are brutal and hard and everyone is replaceable. Petra, discovering the expense of Karin's hotel, suggests she move in with her. Marlene resumes her typing, but after Karin agrees to move in with Petra, she is ordered to bring more Sekt. While Petra admits to being in love with Karin, Karin herself can only say she likes Petra. Six months or so pass. Petra, resplendent in a red wig, is getting dressed, while Karin is in bed reading a colour magazine. Petra cancels a flight to Madrid over the telephone, a habit which Karin thinks is pointless, and Petra orders Marlene to find her shoes. Karin thinks Marlene is strange, but Petra reassures her that Marlene loves her. Karin can still not say she loves Petra. Karin's own capacity for cruelty emerges, while both women have already started drinking. The previous night Karin had been out until 6am, and admits to having been with a man, though she keeps changing her precise story; Petra is jealous and shouts at Marlene. Freddy, Karin's husband, telephones from Zurich. It emerges they have been in contact by letter, and Karin is no longer planning on gaining a divorce, rather she is rejoining her husband. Petra calls her a "rotten little whore", and Karin responds that being with Petra is less strenuous than walking the streets. She asks Petra to book a flight to Frankfurt, where she is to meet her husband, and asks for 500DM from Petra, though Petra freely gives her twice that. Marlene drives Karin to the airport; Petra is now too drunk to drive. On Petra's birthday, the bedroom is almost empty. Petra, lying on the floor and now wearing a blond wig, is drinking heavily while assuming her object of love and hate, Karin, will phone. Her daughter Gaby  arrives. Petra tells her little; Gaby admits to being in love with a young man, though it is so far unrequited. Sidonie appears with a birthday present: a doll with a blond hair like Karin's. She admits to knowing Karin is in Bremen that day. Petra's mother Valerie  is subjected to abuse in her turn. Petra accuses her of being a whore, who never worked and lived off her husband. Petra tramples on the china tea service Marlene had brought in; she insists on an ability to smash anything she has bought. She insists she is not crazy about Karin, but loved her. She claims Karin's little finger is worth all of them put together. Her mother, previously unaware of Karin, is shocked at the thought of her daughter being in love with another woman. Petra rejects Sidonie and hopes not to see her again, but Sidonie stays. Later, Petra lies in bed sans wig, her natural auburn hair on display. She is apologetic to her mother, and realizes she wanted to possess Karin rather than love her. Karin rings from Paris, offering the chance that they will perhaps meet again. Petra turns to Marlene, after her mother has left, and admits she has to apologize to her for many things. It will be different from now on, Petra will share her life with Marlene. But Marlene, who has satisfied her personal masochistic desire in submitting to Petra, packs her small suitcase leaves and takes the doll with her.