Jimmy  is a young boy who has suffered from an unnamed, but serious mental disorder  ever since his twin sister drowned in a river two years earlier. He doesn't interact with anyone, spending most of his time building things out of blocks or boxes, and he always carries his lunch box with him. He's determined to go to "California", at first nearly the only word he can say since the tragedy. The trauma of the drowning and Jimmy's condition has broken up his family: he lives with his mother and stepfather, while his half-brothers Corey  and Nick  live with their father Sam . When Jimmy is put into an institution, Corey breaks him out and runs away with him to California. Jimmy's mother and stepfather hire Putnam , a greedy and sleazy runaway-child bounty hunter, to only bring back Jimmy, who competes with Corey's father and older brother to find the boys and sabotage each other's efforts. Along the way, they meet a girl named Haley , who is on her way home to Reno. Discovering that Jimmy has an innate skill at playing video games, Haley  tells them about "Video Armageddon", a video game tournament with a cash prize of $50,000. She then agrees to help the two reach Los Angeles to participate in it for a cut of the money. By doing so, they hope to prove that Jimmy doesn't need to live in an institution. The trio hitchhike across the country, using Jimmy's skill and appearance to hustle people out of their money by playing video games. Along the way, they encounter Lucas Barton , a popular teenage big shot who shows off his Power Glove and his skills at Rad Racer, declaring he is also entering the tournament. They finally arrive in Reno, where it is revealed that Haley wants her share of the prize money to help her father buy a house. With the help of an acquaintance trucker, Spankey , they use money won at the craps tables to train Jimmy on several games in the Reno arcades, using Nintendo PlayChoice-10 machines. At the tournament, which is held at Universal Studios Hollywood, Jimmy qualifies as a finalist after a preliminary round of Ninja Gaiden. The rest of the family convenes at the tournament, as well as Putnam, who chases the kids through the park and almost causes Jimmy to miss the final round. Jimmy competes with two other finalists, including Lucas, in a game of Super Mario Bros. 3, which at the time had not been released in the United States, and wins the tournament at the last second after finding a Warp Whistle. On the way back home, the family passes by the Cabazon Dinosaurs, a tourist trap, and Jimmy becomes so excited and restless that they pull over. He runs from the car up into one of the dinosaurs, his family in pursuit. Inside, Jimmy takes from his lunchbox one of his pictures of his sister, taken at the foot of the dinosaur with the rest of the family during a vacation, and Corey realizes that he simply wanted to leave his sister's mementos in a place where she would be happy. He leaves the lunchbox inside the dinosaur, and together the family returns home.