The SS Poseidon, an ocean liner slated for retirement and scrapping, is making her way across the Atlantic Ocean and the Mediterranean Sea from New York City to Athens. Despite the protests of Captain Harrison , who fears for the ship's safety in troubled waters, the representative of her new owners, Mr. Linarcos , insists that she make full speed towards its destination, preventing her from taking on additional water ballast. Detective Lieutenant Mike Rogo  and his former-prostitute wife Linda  — seasick, like many of the passengers — receive an invitation to the captain's table. Reverend Frank Scott , a minister questioning his faith and believing God helps those who help themselves, delivers a sermon at Mass. Susan Shelby  and her younger brother Robin  are traveling to meet their parents. Robin is interested in how the ship works and frequently visits the engine room. Retired Jewish hardware store owner Manny Rosen  and his wife Belle  are going to Israel to meet their two-year-old grandson for the first time. Haberdasher James Martin  is a love-shy, health-conscious bachelor. The ship's singer, Nonnie Parry  rehearses for the New Year celebrations with her band which includes her brother Teddy on drums. That evening, New Year's Eve, passengers gather in the dining room to celebrate. Captain Harrison is called to the bridge because of a report of an undersea earthquake. He receives word from the lookout that there is a huge wave heading towards them coming from the direction of Crete at 60 mph. He issues a mayday and commands a "hard left" turn, but it is too late. The wave hits the bridge, killing him, Linarcos, and the other ship's officers on the bridge. With its lack of ballast, the ship capsizes, killing or injuring many of the people on board. In the dining room, survivors take stock of their predicament. Acres , an injured waiter, is trapped at the galley door now high above. With information from Martin, Scott surmises that the escape route will be found 'upwards', at the outer hull, which is now above water. Robin tells him that the hull near the propeller shaft is only one inch  thick. The Rosens, the Rogos, Nonnie, Susan, Robin, Acres, and Martin agree to go with him, using a Christmas tree as a ladder. He unsuccessfully tries to convince more passengers to join them. After the small group climbs to the galley, there is a series of explosions. As seawater floods the room the survivors rush to the Christmas tree, but the weight of everyone climbing causes it to collapse. Acres and Scott find the galley, and the survivors pick their way through it to a staircase. Scott climbs its underside and he and Rogo use a firehose to pull the others up. He leads them to an access tunnel. Rogo has been instructed to look after everybody, but just as Martin and Nonnie climb into the hole, water begins filling the corridor. While climbing up a long ladder inside the funnel, with Acres above them, the ship rocks from another series of explosions. Acres falls into the churning water and is lost despite Rogo's attempt to save him. Climbing out of the shaft, Scott and Rogo argue over the loss of Acres. Their group meets a larger band of survivors led by the ship's medic, heading towards the bow. Scott is certain they are heading for their doom, but Rogo wants to follow them and gives him fifteen minutes to go aft to find the engine room. Although he takes longer than allowed, he finds his way there. The group discovers the engine room is on the other side of a flooded corridor, so someone must swim through with a line to help the others. Belle, a former competitive swimmer, claims she can manage it, but Scott refuses and dives in with the line. Halfway through, a panel collapses on him, trapping him. The survivors notice something is wrong and Belle dives in. She frees him and they make it to the other side. As he secures the lifeline, Belle has a heart attack. Before dying she tells him to give her "Chai" pendant  to Rosen, who in turn will give it to their grandson. Rogo swims over to make sure Belle and Scott are all right, then leads the rest over. When Rosen swims to the other side and finds Belle's body he is unwilling to go on, but Scott gives him her Chai pendant, reminding him that he has a reason to live. Scott leads the survivors across a catwalk to the propeller shaft room's watertight door, but there is another series of explosions and Linda falls to her death. An infuriated and heartbroken Rogo blames her death on Scott. More explosions rupture a pipe that releases steam, blocking their escape. Scott, outraged about the three deaths and this final obstacle, rants at God for betraying the survivors. He leaps and grabs onto the burning-hot valve wheel to shut off the steam, then tells Rogo to lead the group before letting go of it, sacrificing himself. Rogo leads the remaining survivors — Rosen, Martin, Nonnie, Susan and Robin — through the watertight door and into the propeller shaft room. They hear a noise above the ship and bang on the ceiling/floor to get the rescuers' attention. The rescuers then cut through the hull and help the group out of the ship. The survivors, the only six alive after the disaster, fly off to safety by helicopter.