Leo Handler  rides the subway to a his mother's house in Queens, New York, where she has thrown a surprise party in honor of his parole. His cousin Erica  is at the party with her boyfriend Willie Gutierrez . Willie takes Leo aside and thanks him for serving time in prison, implying that Leo had taken a fall for their gang of friends. Leo is eager to find a job to support his mother , who has a heart condition. Willie suggests working for Erica's stepfather Frank Olchin . The next day, Leo meets with Frank at the railway car repair company that he owns. Frank encourages him to enter a 2-year machinist program and offers to help finance his studies. Needing to work right away, Leo asks about working with Willie at the company. Frank discourages that idea. Later, Willie tells Leo not to worry about it, because Frank tried to get him to enroll in a machinist program as well. Willie invites Leo to watch him work the next day. At Brooklyn Borough Hall, Willie explains how corrupt the contract system is for repair work on the subway. After a hearing to award contracts, Willie is approached by Hector Gallardo  about leaving Frank's firm for his. Willie brushes him off, and he takes Leo with him to Roosevelt Island where he bribes the official in charge of awarding contracts. One night, Willie takes Leo with him to a rail yard, where he and a gang sabotage the work of Gallardo's firm, in order to lower their quality rating and lessen their ability to get contracts. Willie tells Leo to stand watch while the crew sabotages the train couplings. Meanwhile, Willie heads into the yard master's office to pay him off with Knicks tickets. The yard master tells Willie to get his crew off the tracks, because Gallardo had brought him $2,000 in cash earlier in the week. The yard master sounds the alarm, which draws a police officer to the tracks where he sees Leo. Terrified of returning to jail, Leo tries to run. When the cop begins to hit Leo with his night stick, Leo fights back and beats the cop into unconsciousness. As he runs off, he sees Willie in the office killing the yard master. As the cop lies in a coma at a hospital, the crew tells Leo that he must murder him, to prevent him from identifying Leo when he wakes up. They warn Leo that if the cop lives, then they will have to kill Leo. At the hospital, Leo is too scared to murder the cop, and he flees. When the cop awakes, he identifies Leo as his attacker, triggering a broad manhunt. The police assume that Leo is also responsible for the yard master's murder. When the police raid his mother's apartment, she has a heart attack, leaving her in an even weaker state. Even though Willie has told him to lay low, Leo emerges from hiding to visit his sick mother. Erica is tending to her, and she asks Leo if Willie was with him at the train yards. She realizes that it was Willie who actually killed the yard master, and she breaks off their engagement. Erica sets up a meeting between Leo and Frank, but Leo realizes that Frank is prepared to kill him. Out of options, Leo turns to Gallardo for protection. With Gallardo's lawyers at his side, Leo turns himself in at a public hearing into the rail yard incident and contract corruption. Realizing that Leo's testimony is in no one's interest, Frank and Gallardo negotiate a new split of the contracts with the Queens Borough President in a backroom deal. Meanwhile, Willie visits Erica, trying to win her back. Frank told him that Erica and Leo had been in love when they were younger, and they were caught having sex. Fearful of the broken-hearted and jealous Willie, Erica triggers the house alarm. Willie tries to embrace her, and as she pulls away, a scuffle ensues. Willie accidentally throws Erica off the second floor landing, causing her to fall to her death. Outside the house, he surrenders to the police who have responded to the alarm. Erica's death emboldens Leo to ignore the deal that Frank and his cronies brokered. The film closes with him testifying against everyone involved in the corruption.