Ezra "Penny" Baxter , once a Confederate soldier, and his wife Ora , are pioneer farmers near Lake George, Florida in 1878, 13 years after the American Civil War ended. Their son, Jody , a boy in his pre-teen years, is their only surviving child. Jody has a wonderful relationship with his warm and loving pa. Ora, however, is still haunted by the deaths of the three other children of the family: she is very somber and hard-hearted and is afraid that Jody will end up dying if she shows her parental love to him. Jody finds her somewhat unloving and unreasonable. With all of his siblings dead and buried, Jody longs for a pet to play with and care for. Penny is sympathetic and understanding, but Ora is disgusted. One day, when a rattle snake bites Penny, they kill a doe and use its organs to draw out the poison. Jody asks to adopt the doe's orphaned fawn. Penny permits it, but warns Jody that the fawn will have to be set free when it grows up. Jody goes to ask his frail friend Fodder-Wing to name the fawn only to find he has just died. However, Fodder-Wing's older brother tells Jody that Fodderwing had said that if he had a fawn he would name him Flag -- for the critter's waving white tail. Soon, Jody and Flag are inseparable. One year later, Flag has grown up and becomes a total nuisance to the household and farm; he eats newly-grown corn, destroys fences, and tramples on tobacco crops. Penny orders Jody to take the deer out into the woods and kill it with a rifle. Jody takes the deer out, but does not have the courage to kill it. Instead, he orders the deer to go away and never return. But Flag comes back to their property. Finally, Ora  takes the gun and shoots it, but only wounds the deer. Penny orders Jody to put the deer out of its misery. Rather than let his pet deer be in agonizing pain, he follows his father's orders. The loss of Jody's beloved pet deer proves too much for him to handle: Overwhelmed with anger and despair, he runs away from home. Three days later, he is rescued by a friendly boat captain and returns home. He and Penny quickly make up. Penny tells him that Ora had been out searching for him. Just before Jody goes to bed, Ora returns and sees that he is back. She becomes filled with happiness and emotion, knowing that her huge fear of losing her last child is now over. She happily runs into Jody's room and showers him with more affection than she ever gave him. She is no longer afraid to show her parental love to him.http://www.tcm.com/tcmdb/title/2523/The-Yearling/full-synopsis.html