Riddick, has been in hiding for five years after Pitch Black. He evades the bounty hunter Toombs, killing Toombs' crew and stealing his ship. He then heads to the planet Helion Prime, after Toombs reveals his bounty originated there. Once there, Riddick is reunited with Imam, the man he rescued in Pitch Black. Imam wants to know about his homeworld, the devastated planet Furya and if anyone other than himself is left. Imam believes Helion Prime is the next planet to be conquered by the Necromongers, an army of religious fanatics who seek to convert everyone and kill those who refuse. The Necromongers invade, overwhelming the defense forces and take control of the capital. In the ensuing battle, Imam is killed and Riddick escapes. The next day, the Necromonger high priest, coerces the populace into converting, except for Riddick, who defiantly kills the man who killed Imam. Intrigued, the Lord Marshal orders Riddick be examined where it is discovered that he is the last Furyan, so the Lord Marshal orders Riddick's death. Riddick escapes the Necromonger ship, and allows himself to again be captured by Toombs. Riddick is taken to Crematoria, a harsh prison, where Jack from Pitch Black was reported to have been sent. Following Riddick's escape, the Lord Marshal sends Commander Vaako to hunt him down, an easy process since Toombs' ship left behind an easily traceable path. Vaako's wife speaks to an Elemental who was a seer for the Lord Marshal. The Elemental reveals that Furya was destroyed by the Lord Marshal after he was told a male child from that planet would destroy him. On Crematoria, a disagreement breaks out between Toombs and the prison warden over what Toombs is owed. Word about the Necromongers has reached the isolated prison warden, who suspects that Toombs stole Riddick from them, and that it will bring trouble. In the prison, Riddick finds Jack, now named Kyra, and they eventually reconcile. Later, the guards kill all the bounty hunters, take the prize money and prepare to leave before the Necromongers arrive. Riddick leads several prisoners to steal the ship. The guards reach the hanger, just as the prisoners arrive outside of hanger doors. Just then the Necromongers arrive. All of the guards are killed and Riddick is incapacitated by Vaako. With the approach of the vicious sunrise , Vaako leaves Riddick to die; Kyra, thinking Riddick is dead, flees with the Necromongers. However, Riddick is saved by the Purifier, who tells him that if he stays away from the Necromongers, they will not hunt him. The Purifier then reveals that he too is Furyan, and that Vaako will report Riddick as dead, giving Riddick the element of surprise. The Purifier then commits suicide by walking out into the scorching heat after he encourages Riddick to save Kyra and kill the Lord Marshal. Meanwhile, Vaako reported Riddick dead and is named heir apparent by the Lord Marshal. Riddick flies back to Helion Prime. Riddick, disguised in Necromonger armor, infiltrates the main hall; Dame Vaako sees him, but encourages her husband to let Riddick strike first to wound the Lord Marshal and paving the way for Vaako to kill him. When Riddick strikes, the Lord Marshal presents Kyra, who appears to have converted; Riddick attacks, but when it appears that Riddick has lost, Kyra stabs the Lord Marshal in the back with a spear. She is then mortally wounded after being impaled on some spikes. Vaako makes his move to strike, but Riddick, who in the fight has figured out the Lord Marshal's weakness, ends up killing the Lord Marshal. Kyra dies, and as Riddick stands there, the Necromongers kneel before him, the new Lord Marshal.