Signs of the apocalypse are appearing, along with a mysterious wanderer. Father Lucci  is the Vatican official investigating them. He dismisses the occurrences as natural, but Abby Quinn  believes that they are real. In the film, Jürgen Prochnow portrays Jesus' return to Earth in the year 1988 to judge humanity. In Jewish mysticism the Chamber of Guf  Hebrew for "body", also called the Otzar , is the Hall of Souls, located in the Seventh Heaven {{cn}}. Every human soul is held to emanate from the Guf. A possible  reading of the Talmud, Yevamot 62a, is that the Messiah will not come until the Guf is emptied of all its souls. The final judgment is averted by an act of faith that prevents the final sign of the apocalypse from occurring. In the film, through a flashback, Prochnow also portrays the original Jesus on the eve of his crucifixion. Father Lucci is revealed to be Cartaphilus, a Roman Centurion and Pilate's porter who struck Jesus before his death and was sentenced to wander the Earth until Christ returned to judge mankind. The Lucci-Cartaphilus character is a combination of the Longinus and the Wandering Jew legends. In the movie, Abby- who is soon to give birth- discovers that she is actually the reborn woman some identify as Seraphia, the woman who offered Christ water during the Crucifixion but was turned away by Cartaphilus. She learns that the prophecies lead up to the birth of her child, who may not survive because there will be no more souls left for the newborns unless someone offers their own. The last sign was the killing of an innocent soul, a mentally retarded man named Jimmy, framed for a murder and condenmed to be executed through electric chair, Abby, even that she begans to have her child, runs to the place where the execution will be made, but after a skirmish with Father Lucci, David and the guards of the place some shots are done, Abby tries to cover the man to avoid being killed and took a bullet but she is unable to save the man from dying. Father Lucci, who screamed in pain to shoot Abby, Jimmy and the guards, was arrested, and later killed in the end. Then the end of the world begins and she began birth labour. In an ambulance she releases a baby that is death, giving the seventh sign to be completed, but when she remembered again the flashback "Would you give your life for him?" she decides to offer her soul for the baby and dies in the process while the baby revives, stopping the end of the world. At the end, David and a Jewish boy called Avi reflects over the situation and David asks Avi to document everything he saw.