Johnny Clay  is a veteran criminal planning one last heist before settling down and marrying Fay . He plans to rob two million dollars from the money-counting room of a racetrack during a featured race. He assembles a team consisting of a corrupt cop , a betting window teller  to give access to the backroom, a sharpshooter  to shoot the favorite horse during the race to distract the crowd, a wrestler  to provide another distraction by provoking a fight at the track bar, and a track bartender . George Peatty, the teller, tells his wife Sherry  about the impending robbery. Sherry is bitter at George for not delivering on the promises of wealth he made her at the time of their marriage, and George hopes that telling her about the robbery will placate and impress her. Sherry does not believe him at first but, after learning that the robbery is real, she enlists her lover Val Cannon  to steal the money from George and his associates. The heist is successful, although the sharpshooter is shot and killed by the police. The conspirators gather at the apartment where they are to meet Johnny and divide the money. Before Johnny arrives, Val appears and holds them up. A shootout ensues and a badly wounded George is the sole survivor. He goes home and shoots Sherry before dying. Johnny, on his way to the apartment, sees George staggering in the street and knows that something is wrong. He buys the biggest suitcase he can find to put the money in , and he and Fay go to the airport. At the airport however, they are told that they aren't allowed to take the suitcase along as hand luggage because of its size, and instead have to check it in as regular luggage. Johnny reluctantly complies. While waiting to board their plane, they watch as the suitcase falls off a cart, breaks open and the loose banknotes are swept away by the wind. They leave the airport but are unsuccessful at finding a cab. Fay urges Johnny to flee but he refuses, stating that there is no use trying to escape. The film ends with two officers coming to arrest him.