Bridget Gregory steals $700,000 from her drug dealer husband Clay. On her way to Chicago, she stops in a small town, Beston, a suburb of Buffalo, and meets Mike. Meanwhile, Clay gets his thumb broken by the loan shark who is looking for repayment for his loan. Clay, with the help of a private detective, frantically searches for his wife and the money. In Beston, Bridget changes her name to Wendy Kroy and gets a job at the insurance company where Mike works. When Mike tells her how to find out if a man is cheating on his wife by reading his credit reports, Bridget invents a plan based on selling murders to cheated wives. She pretends to travel to Florida to kill a cheating husband, but instead goes to Buffalo to meet Mike's ex-wife, Trish. She shows Mike the money she stole from Clay to convince him she has taken a cut from the life insurance payout from the new widow as payment for the supposed killing. She tells him she has done it so they can live together, then persuades him that he must also commit a similar murder so they will be even, and to prove that he loves her. She tries to talk Mike into killing a tax lawyer cheating old ladies out of their homes. At first he rejects the idea, but agrees after receiving a letter from his ex saying she is moving to Beston. The letter was forged by Bridget to change his mind. Mike goes to New York City and breaks into the apartment of the attorney, who turns out to be Clay. After Clay is tied up by Mike, he manages to work out what is happening when Mike mentions Bridget's alias, and convinces him of the truth by showing him a photo of himself and Bridget together. They then hatch a plot to double-cross her, but she turns the tables by killing Clay herself. She tells a stunned Mike to rape her. When he refuses, she tells him she knows the truth about Trish, who is a transsexual. She then tricks Mike into having rough sex with her while she has 9-1-1 on the line. Mike is arrested for rape and murder while she escapes with the cash.