In the middle of the night, on a highway in Los Angeles, three black modified 1995 Honda Civic EG follow a semi-trailer truck. One of the masked pursuers breaks a windshield with a crossbow, and grappels himself to the seat. He subdues the driver and the Civics commandeer the truck, managing to steal over $6 million in merchandise of TV-s and electronics that were on the truck. LAPD officer Brian O'Conner  is sent undercover on a joint LAPD-FBI investigation to infiltrate the local L.A illegal street racing scene so he could find and apprehend the truck hijackers. Brian uses his cover job at The Racer's Edge, an aftermarket parts shop, to make connections and infiltrate the local street racing scene. One night, on a local street racing gathering, he enters his modified 1995 Mitsubishi Eclipse 2G RS 420A into an illegal race with Dominic Toretto , Edwin  and Ryo  bartering the pink slips, due that he doesn't have enough money to bet in the race, asking for cash and respect if he wins the race. Brian, due to his lack of knowledge in racing, activates too much nitrous oxide, pressurising the Eclipse's engine, frying it, resulting in the car automatically braking and spinning out to prevent overheating, with Brian also losing the race to Dominic, who drives a modified 1993 Mazda RX-7. Although Dominic mocks him in front of the gathered racers and viewers. Suddenly, LAPD arrives on the scene and Brian flees away, as well as Dominic. Dominic arrives at a local parking lot and ditches his car to prevent being caught, but a squad car recognizes him. He runs into an alley, where Brian arrives and they escape the patrol, and thus wins Dominic's respect. As they flee from the scene, Dominic and Brian accidentally venture into Southern California's Little Saigon, encountering Dominic's rival, Johnny Tran  along with his cousin Lance Nguyen  and his gang. Tran warns Dominic to stay away from his territory, and that he will smoke him at the "Race Wars", a massive street racing event held in the desert, before departing the scene. The duo tries to leave, but Johnny returns with Lance, who open fire with submachine guns, rupturing a nitrous tank and destroying the Eclipse in the resulting explosion. Brian and Dominic leave Little Saigon and hail a cab. Later on, Dom invites Brian to a party at his house, where he encounters with Dominic's friend, Vince , who dislikes Brian because of Dominic's sister, Mia , who takes interest in Brian. At the party, Brian also meets Letty , Dom's longtime girlfriend, and the rest of the Dom's crew, Leon , an expert mechanic and also Dom's old friend, and Jesse , a geek specialized in electronics. The next day, Brian delivers a totaled 1994 Toyota Supra to Dominic's shop and offers his talents as a driver to repay the debt incurred from losing the race. Brian begins dating Mia, while Dom and the rest of the crew goes to work restoring the Supra. Dominic also invites Brian to his house, showing him a 1970 Dodge Charger, which he built with his father. Dom tells him that his dad was a stock car driver. One day, his father was forced into a wall by another racer and the accident resulted in an explosion, killing Dom's father. He met the driver a week later and beat him up with a 3/4" torque wrench. This caused Dom to have a record, and he was forbidden to return to that track for life. Dom explains to Brian: "I live my life a quarter-mile at a time... For those 10 seconds or less, I'm free". One night, Brian is checking under the local garages, hoping to find the Civics. Just as he was leaving without finding anything, he is knocked out by Vince. He is dragged to Dom, who asks Brian to reason himself at gunpoint. Brian lies saying at "The racer's Edge", Hector , the man who organized the race the other night, ordered three modified engines, leaving him in a  suspicion that he is planning something big, probably for Tran. Dom takes him to Little Saigon, where they raid another garage. Inside, they discover that there is no engines inside the cars, but Brian notices shipment of electronics in the garage. They hide as Tran and Lance arrive, torturing the mechanic to give him the engines they requested. They manage to escape without being seen. This convinces Brian that Tran's crew is behind the hijacks, and lets Sergeant Tanner  and FBI special agent Bilkins  know. The SWAT team, along with Brian, raids Tran's house and arrests him and his cousin Lance, but it is shown up that the electronics are legally bought, and that the only charges against them is minor parking tickets and un-paid speeding fines, forcing them to set them free as their ransom is paid. Bilkins and Tanner, Brian's superiors, return to their original theory that Dominic and his crew are the perpetrators. Tanner warns Brian not to let his feelings for Mia or his friendship with Dominic cloud his judgment and lead him too far from the case, and Bilkins, angered about the situation, gives Brian only 36 hours to break the case or he will be sacked from the job and lose his entire career. Meanwhile, with the Supra now fully prepped to race, Brian asks Dominic for information regarding his income, citing that the shop alone wouldn't pay for all his racing expenditures, and that he wants to be in whatever he is doing. Instead, Dominic gives Brian an invitation to "Race Wars", and informs him they'll talk once Brian has proven his worth on the strip. On Race Wars, Jesse, wanting to impress his dad in jail and Dom, bets his modified 1995 Volkswagen Jetta A3 and Tran bets his modified 1999 Honda S2000. Jesse loses, panics and flees the track, prompting Tran to confront Dominic and demand that he retrieve the car for him. Dominic refuses and Tran accuses him of informing on him, causing him to be humiliated in front of his entire family. In response Dominic brutally beats Tran and is pulled off by Vince and two security guards. That night, Brian notices Dominic and his crew leaving the Race Wars. Brian realizes that Dominic is the hijacker and confesses to Mia his status as an undercover cop. She is angry at Brian but he says to her that everything that he said to her about their relationship is true and convinces her to come with him to save her brother and his friends from the armed truck drivers, and they leave on the Highway 65 outside L.A. to catch up with Dominic and the rest of the group. Meanwhile, the attempted hijacking goes wrong when the truck driver fights back with a shotgun, causing Letty and Vince severe injuries. Brian tracks their location by triangulating Dominic's cell phone signal, and works with Mia to get Vince off the truck. Brian, realizing that Vince is in a critical condition, makes the difficult decision to blow his cover to the crew by phoning in for a medivac, revealing to Dominic that he is a police officer. The revelation enrages Dominic, but he contains himself and flees with Leon, Letty and Mia as the medivac arrives for Vince. Brian follows Dominic to his house and holds him at gunpoint to prevent him from fleeing, but Dominic explains that he is going to look for Jesse before Tran finds him. Just when Dominic points his shotgun to him, Jesse arrives, apologizing for his actions at Race Wars and pleading for Dominic's help. Moments later, Tran and Lance arrive on their bikes and perform a drive-by shooting, killing Jesse. Brian and Dominic chase them, with Dom in his Charger. He forces Lance's motorcycle off the road, severely injuring him, while Brian, after a short chase, manages to shoot and kill Tran. Afterwards, Brian and Dominic engage in a drag race, narrowly avoiding a passing train. Despite making the train track jump, Dominic crashes into a semi-truck and rolls his car twice. Brian pulls out Dom, with Dom assuming that he will be apprehended, but instead of arresting him, Brian hands over the keys to the Supra and lets him escape, making good on his promise to deliver a "ten-second car". Dom escapes in Brian's car. After the credits, Dominic is seen driving through Baja, Mexico, in a 1970 Chevrolet Chevelle SS, while he narrates the words that he explained to Brian before he disappears into the sunset. His last narrations are; "I live my life a quarter-mile at a time. For those 10 seconds or less, I'm free."