The silent tells the story of a sheltered woman named Letty  who lives in the East in Virginia and moves to West Texas to live at her cousin Beverly's ranch at Sweet Water. On her way, she is constantly bothered by the never stopping blowing wind. Wirt Roddy  notices and seduces her in the train. He scares her by saying the wind usually drives women crazy. After her arrival, she is picked up by Beverly's closest neighbour Lige Hightower , who lives 15 miles from her cousin. Letty is afraid of him, but Roddy assures her he will visit her sometimes to look how she is doing. After endless miles in sand and wind, they arrive at the ranch. Beverly  is delighted with her arrival, but his wife Cora  is only jealous, despite Letty saying she and Beverly are like brother and sister. Her grudge against Letty becomes even worse when her children have an immediate connection with her, while they all seem to dislike their mother. At a party, Mr Sourdough  reveals he intends proposing to Letty. Lige stops him and explains he wants to propose to her himself. Letty is accompanied by Roddy when a cyclone interrupts the party. The guests all hide in a shelter and Roddy declares his love to Letty and begs her to run off with him. After the cyclone is over, both Lige and Mr. Sourdough propose to her, but Letty thinks it's a joke. Cora comes in and demands that she leave Beverly alone. Letty is shocked but Cora tells her that she has to leave the ranch. Because she has neither money nor a place to go, she decides to go away with Roddy, but Roddy tells her quite openly that he is already married. Cora agrees that Letty can stay for just one more night at the ranch but tells her that she has to accept one of the two marriage proposals she has received. She eventually marries Lige after he and Mr.Sourdough toss a coin to win her hand. He is delighted to marry her, but Letty is not interested in him. When she admits she doesn't want to be around him, Lige is hurt and promises her he will never touch her. He also agrees that he will try to make enough money to send her back to Virginia. Letty remains living with him and keeps household, but is constantly annoyed by the wind. One day, Lige tells her he is going to a meeting of a few cattlemen. Letty, bored with the household and driven insane by the wind, begs to go with him but despite initially refusing, he takes Letty with him. Letty is hurt in a severe sand storm. Lige rescues her and orders Mr Sourdough to bring her back home. After the cattlemen return with a severely injured Roddy, she is forced to nurse him. He forces himself upon her, but she rejects him. Lige, returns and interrupts them. A fearful Letty is now happy to see him and they kiss. Lige soon leaves again for the meeting. That night, a bad storm makes the house shake. Letty is driven insane and loses her mind, before fainting. Roddy saves her, but she demands that he go away. He becomes aggressive, which results in Letty shooting him to death. Afraid, Letty decides to bury him. However, while digging, the wind makes her lose her mind yet again. She is driven mad, believing that the dead body of Roddy has returned to haunt her. But Lige returns. She admits she has killed and buried Roddy. Lige realizes the wind has made her like this and promises her she will be out of the wind soon as he has now made enough money to send her away. However, Letty declares her love to him and tells Lige that she no longer wants to leave, is no longer afraid and they kiss.