The film opens with a brief, comic segment on the history of flight, narrated by James Robertson Justice and featuring American comedian Red Skelton depicting a recurring character whose adventures span the centuries, in a series of silent blackout vignettes that incorporate stock footage of unsuccessful attempts at early aircraft. This was Skelton's final feature film appearance; he was in Europe filming for the 1964–1965 season of his television series, The Red Skelton Show.This early history sequence is followed by a whimsical animated opening credit sequence drawn by caricaturist Ronald Searle, accompanied by the title song. A recurring "gag" suggested by Zanuck concerned his girlfriend, Irina Demick who played Brigitte , Marlene , Ingrid , Françoise , Yvette , and Betty  as a lookalike flirt pursued by the French pilot Pierre Dubois =""DVD"/>" N="N"/> Patricia  is the daughter of Lord Rawnsley , a newspaper magnate. Richard Mays , is an Army officer who flies an Antoinette monoplane and seeks to win Patricia's hand. Mays conceives the idea of an air race from London to Paris to advance the cause of aviation , and persuades Lord Rawnsley to sponsor the race. An international cast plays the array of contestants, most of whom live up to national stereotypes, including the by-the-book, monocle-wearing Prussian officer  flying an Eardley-Billing biplane, impetuous Count Emilio Ponticelli , an amorous Frenchman Pierre Dubois  in a Santos-Dumont Demoiselle, the rugged American cowboy Orvil Newton  flying a Bristol Boxkite , who falls for Patricia, causing a love triangle between them and Mays. Yujiro Ishihara is the late-arriving Japanese Naval officer Yamamoto, whose perfect Etonian accent makes him more British than the British. Rawnsley sums up: "The trouble with these international affairs is they attract a lot of foreigners."Those Magnificent Men in their Flying Machines VHS 1969 Sir Percy Ware-Armitage  is the unscrupulous rogue flying an Avro Triplane who "never leaves anything to chance". With his bullied servant Courtney , he sabotages other aircraft or drugs their pilots, and cheats by shipping his aeroplane across the channel by boat. The race sets out with 14 competitors but one by one they drop out or  crash, until only a few land in Paris. Orvil Newton loses his chance to win when he pauses to rescue Emilio Ponticelli from his burning aircraft. Richard Mays wins for Britain, but insists on a tie with Orvill Newton and sharing the prize with the now-bankrupt Newton. Orvil and Patricia finally are seen kissing, then being interrupted by a strange noise. Those at the flying field look up to see a flypast by six English Electric Lightnings overhead. The story resumes in a fogbound London airport as a cancellation of flights to Paris is announced. The narrator noted earlier that a jet can make the trip in minutes, with one frustrated passenger who turns out to be Skelton, starting wing-flapping motions with his arms, cutting back into the animation from the title sequence for the closing credits.