Architect Peter Mitchell , cartoonist Michael Kellam  and actor Jack Holden  are happy living their lives as bachelors in their lofty New York City apartment. They all have different girlfriends, successful jobs and a carefree and somewhat hedonistic lifestyle. This is disrupted when a baby arrives on their doorstep one day. A note with the child, Mary, indicates that it is Jack's, the result of an affair with a recent co-star. The baby arrives in Jack's absence – he is in Turkey shooting a B movie, leaving Peter and Michael to fend for themselves in taking care of the child, something in which their lack of experience befuddles them. At one point, Peter and Michael are mistakenly led to believe that they are to deliver Mary to two men who arrive at their door asking for "the package". They discover moments before their departure that the men are drug dealers who were actually seeking a package of heroin. They retrieve the infant, leaving the men with a can of powdered milk. What results is a major change to the men's lives as they try to adjust to surrogate fatherhood&mdash;balancing the demands of work, a social schedule and the rearing of a child. Soon their paternal instincts take hold, and they grow attached to the child. Eventually, when Jack returns, Peter and Michael do not hesitate in taking their revenge and passing all responsibility of looking after Mary to Jack, but Jack quickly grows to love his daughter. The drug dealers, demanding payment, eventually ransack the men's apartment looking for their drugs. The men formulate a plan to trap the dealers when they negotiate a deal to deliver the illicit goods. With a recording of the conversation, the men prove their innocence to the police and the dealers are arrested. At the end of the movie, the baby's mother, an English woman named Sylvia , arrives, asking for Mary back. Moments before her departure to England, she realizes she cannot give up her career to raise her daughter alone, and the three men, having grown attached to Mary, cannot bear to lose Mary, and rush to the airport to persuade Sylvia to stay in America, but they arrive just as Sylvia's plane leaves. Defeated, the men return to their apartment, where they find both Sylvia and Mary. The men quickly invite her to move into their apartment with them, and she agrees.