In World War II London, fire wardens Josephine "Jody" Norris  and Lord Desham  keep a lonely vigil. When Jody saves Desham's life, they become better acquainted. With a bit of coaxing, the aging spinster tells the story of her life, leading to a flashback. Jody is the belle of her small American hometown of Piersen Falls. Both Alex Piersen  and traveling salesman Mac Tilton  propose to her. However, she turns them both down. A disappointed Alex marries Corinne . When handsome US Army Air Service fighter pilot Captain Bart Cosgrove  flies in to promote a World War I bond drive, he and Jody quickly fall in love, though they have only one night together. A pregnant Jody is advised  that her life is in danger and she needs an operation. She agrees, though she would lose her unborn child. However, when she learns that Bart has been killed in action, she changes her mind. She secretly gives birth to their son in 1919. She tries to arrange it so that she can "adopt" the boy without scandal by having him left on the doorstep of a family with too many children already, but the scheme backfires. Corrine loses her own newborn that same day, but is consoled by Jody's. Jody has to love her son, named Gregory or "Gregsy", from afar. Her father dies, forcing her to sell the family drug store. When Jody asks to become Gregsy's nurse, Corrine turns her down; she has suspected all along that Jody is the boy's real mother. Knowing that her husband never loved her, Corrine is determined to keep the one person who does. Jody moves to New York City to work for Mac. She discovers to her surprise that he is a bootlegger, using a cosmetics business as a front. The same day, the place is raided by the police, leaving Mac with nothing but the cosmetics equipment. Jody persuades him to make cold cream; with her drive and determination, she builds up a thriving business, and they become rich. In 1924, she forces Corrine to give her Gregsy by threatening to block a desperately needed bank loan for Alex's failing business. After two months, however, the four-year-old  is still so miserably homesick, Jody gives up and sends the boy back. Heartbroken, Jody leaves the US to immerse herself in work, setting up and running the English branch of her Lady Vyvyan Cosmetics Company. During World War II, her son  becomes a pilot in the 8th Air Force. When he gets a leave in London, Jody meets his train and fusses over him. He only knows her as a family friend. Lord Desham, who is attracted to Jody, uses his influence to arrange for the young man to marry his WREN fiancée without the customary delay. After some broad hints from Desham, Lieutenant Pierson finally realizes why Jody has been so helpful and asks his mother  for a dance.