One Christmas Eve in present day Tokyo, three homeless people &mdash; {{nihongo}}, a middle-aged alcoholic, {{nihongo}}, a transwoman and former drag queen, and {{nihongo}}, a runaway girl &mdash; discover an abandoned newborn while searching in some trash. Deposited with the unnamed baby is a note asking the finder to take good care of her and a bag containing clues to the parent's identity. The trio sets out to find the baby's parents. The baby is named Kiyoko, "pure child" as she is born on Christmas Eve. Outside a cemetery, the group encounters a high-ranking yakuza man trapped under his car. The man happens to know the owner of the club Kiyoko's mother used to visit; he is getting married to the man's daughter. At the wedding, the groom tells them that the baby's mother is a former club member named Sachiko. He gives them Sachiko's address, but the party is interrupted when a maid is revealed to be a Latin American hit man in disguise, attempting to shoot the bride's father with a Tokarev TT-33, the hit man kidnaps Miyuki and the baby and takes them back to his home. There, Miyuki befriends the hit man's wife and shows her some pictures of her family. Hana searches for Miyuki and Kiyoko while Gin takes care of an old homeless man whom he finds dying in the street. The old man dies after giving Gin a little red bag. Some teenagers show up to beat Gin and the deceased old man. Meanwhile, Hana finds the girls and they go off to find a place to stay. Hana takes them to a club she used to work at. Gin, who was found by another member of the club, is also there. The trio sets out to find Sachiko's house. They're informed of the unhappy marriage Sachiko shares with her husband. The group rests at a store until they are told to leave by the shopkeeper. Hana collapses and is taken to a hospital. At the hospital, Gin finds his daughter who works as a nurse. Hana humiliates Gin in front of his daughter and storms out of the hospital. Miyuki follows with Kiyoko. Hana and Miyuki find Sachiko about to jump off a bridge. Sachiko insists that her husband got rid of the baby without her knowledge, and they return it to her. Meanwhile, Gin finds Sachiko's husband, who reveals that Kiyoko is actually a baby that Sachiko stole from the hospital. The chase for Sachiko and the baby begins. After an intense car chase through the city, Miyuki follows Sachiko as she escapes to the top of a building. Sachiko tries to jump off the building, but her husband comes out of his apartment  and encourages her to start a new life. Sachiko jumps off nevertheless and accidentally drops the baby off of the building. Hana jumps after Kiyoko. She catches the baby and miraculously lands safely. Hana, Miyuki, and Gin are taken to the hospital. Miyuki hands Gin his cigarettes and drops the old man's small red bag on the floor, revealing a winning lottery ticket. Kiyoko's real parents want to ask the trio to become her godparents. When a police inspector introduce them to the trio, the inspector is revealed to be Miyuki's father.