After seven years, Thomas R. "Tommy" Callahan III  barely graduates from Marquette University and returns home to Sandusky, Ohio. His proud father, industrialist and widower Thomas "Big Tom" Callahan, Jr. , gives him an executive job at the family's auto parts plant, Callahan Auto. In addition to the new job and office, Big Tom reveals another set of surprises for his son: He plans to marry Beverly Barrish-Burns , a woman he had met at a fat farm, and her son, Paul , will become Tommy's new stepbrother. But, during the wedding reception, Big Tom dies from a sudden heart attack. After the funeral, the bank reneges on promises of a loan for a new brake pad division, the key to Big Tom's strategy for the company. Doubting the future of the company without Big Tom, the bank seeks immediate payment of Callahan Auto's debts. In a move that surprises even himself, Tommy suggests a deal: Tommy will let the bank hold his inherited shares and house in exchange for the bank giving him time to sell enough orders for brake pads to prove the new division's viability. If he sells the brake pads by the deadline, the bank will grant the loan. The bankers agree, and set Tommy's goal at proven sales of 500,000 brake pads. The bankers remind Tommy that if he should fail, the bank will use their ownership stake to convince the board to sell the company. Tommy sets out on a cross-nation sales trip with his father's former assistant, Richard Hayden , a childhood friend who has long been jealous of Tommy's ability to be lazy and yet be rewarded. Meanwhile, Beverly and Paul are shown kissing romantically. They are not mother and son, but married con artists with criminal records. Their plan to steal from Big Tom has paid off early. Instead of eventually suing for divorce and taking half of Big Tom's estate, Beverly has inherited controlling interest in the company. To turn that into cash, she seeks a quick sale to self-described "auto parts king" Ray Zalinsky . On the road, Tommy's social awkwardness and hyperactivity alienate potential buyers. These failures lead to tension between Tommy and Richard, which eventually escalates into a fight between the two after a near-car accident that was indirectly and unintentionally caused by Tommy. Adding to the duo's problems, Richard's classic 1967 Plymouth GTX is damaged in a series of comic pratfalls. But, when Tommy persuades a surly waitress to serve him after the kitchen has closed, he finds his confidence. With Tommy regaining confidence, the two make their first successful sale. The pair manage to mend their friendship and quickly make their sales goal. However, Paul sabotages the company's computers, causing sales posted by sales manager Michelle Brock  to be lost or rerouted. Customers cancel their orders. The bank, backed by Beverly and Paul, decides to sell Callahan Auto to Zalinsky. On the eve of the sale, Zalinsky does not hide his plans: He only wants the goodwill connected with the Callahan brand. He will close down the company and lay off its 300 workers. Hoping that they can persuade Zalinsky to reconsider his plans, Tommy and Richard travel to Chicago. In Chicago, Tommy and Richard are removed from the Zalinsky board room since Tommy has no standing. After briefly wallowing on the curb in self-pity, Michelle arrives with Paul and Beverly's police records. Tommy devises 'a plan:' Dressed as a bogus suicide bomber, he attracts a live television news crew and then forces his way back into the board room. In Sandusky, Callahan workers watch the drama on a conveniently placed television. Having gained the attention of Zalinsky and the Callahan board, Tommy reveals his deception; the sticks of dynamite strapped to his chest are just road flares stolen from a construction site. In a final move of pure persuasion, Tommy quotes Zalinsky's own advertising claim to be on the side of the "American working man." As a TV audience watches, Zalinsky signs Tommy's purchase order for "half-a-million" brake pads. Workers in Sandusky cheer. The TV crew, thinking the story dramatically concluded, leaves. With the cameras gone, Zalinsky says that the purchase order is meaningless, as he will soon own Callahan Auto. However, Michelle shows her police documents, which includes Paul's outstanding warrants for fraud. The group around the table works through the logic together: Since Beverly is still married to Paul, her marriage to Big Tom was bigamy, and therefore never legal. Thus, the shares actually belong to Tommy. Since Tommy does not want to sell, the deal with Zalinsky is off. And, since Tommy still holds Zalinsky's purchase order, the company is saved. Paul attempts to escape, but is arrested. Zalinsky admits that Tommy outplayed him and invites Beverly to dinner. And, in a happy ending, Tommy is introduced to the employees in Sandusky as the new leader of Callahan Auto.