The battleship {{USS}} arrives at Pearl Harbor, where George H. W. Bush announces that the ship will be decommissioned in California, making the trip her final voyage. Casey Ryback , a Chief Petty Officer assigned as a cook, is preparing meals in celebration of the birthday of Captain Adams , against the orders of Commander Krill , who is having food and entertainment brought by helicopter. Krill provokes a brawl with Ryback. Unable to imprison Ryback in the brig without clearance from the captain, Krill detains Ryback in a freezer and places a Marine, Private Nash , on guard. A CH-46 helicopter lands on the ship's deck with a musical band, along with Playmate Jordan Tate  and a group of caterers who are really a band of mercenaries led by ex-CIA operative Bill Strannix . Strannix' forces seize control of the ship with the help of turncoat Krill. Several officers are killed, including Captain Adams. The rest of the ship's company are imprisoned in the forecastle, except for some stragglers in unsecured areas. Strannix intends to steal and sell the ship's Tomahawks by unloading them onto a submarine he had previously stolen from North Korea. The CIA had tried and failed to assassinate him prior to the events of the film. Strannix and his men take over the ship's weapon systems, shooting down an F/A-18 Hornet sent to investigate, and plan on covering their escape by using missiles to obliterate tracking systems in Pearl Harbor. Krill realizes they forgot about Ryback and learns the kitchen is an unsecured area. Strannix sends mercenaries to eliminate Ryback and Nash. Nash is killed, but Ryback manages to kill the mercenaries. He begins killing off terrorists with the limited help of Jordan Tate. Ryback also gets in contact with Admiral Bates  at the Pentagon by using a satellite phone, whereupon the Navy plans to send a SEAL team to retake the ship. Krill discovers that Ryback is really a Chief Petty Officer and former Navy SEAL. To keep the missile-theft plan in place, Krill activates the fire sprinklers in the forecastle, leaving the crew members to drown. The terrorists expect that Ryback will try to save his colleagues, and set up an ambush. Ryback locates a group of sailors in hiding and along with them engages a successful counter-strike, turning off the sprinklers and eliminating several terrorists. Ryback shuts down the Missouris weapon systems, in order to allow the incoming Navy SEALs to land. The submarine crew shoots down the helicopter carrying the Navy SEALs with shoulder-fired surface-to-air missiles. The Pentagon responds by ordering an air strike that will sink the Missouri. Strannix regains control of the ship's weapon systems and Tomahawks are loaded onto the submarine, departing with Krill on board. With the aid of Jordan and his fellow sailors, Ryback uses the battleship's guns to sink the submarine, killing Krill and everyone on board. Strannix suffers a major concussion from being in the proximity of the Missouris guns as they are fired. He launches two nuclear-tipped Tomahawks towards Honolulu. As the sailors recapture the ship, Ryback finds his way into the control room, where he is captured by Strannix. Strannix and Ryback realize they know each other from their past covert experiences. Ryback states that both of them are disillusioned and were "used" by their government; Strannix says Ryback still believes in his country, whereas Strannix does not. Ryback and Strannix then engage in a knife fight wherein Ryback kills Strannix. Ryback then takes the launch codes needed to self-destruct the Tomahawk missiles. One of the two missiles is destroyed by an F/A-18 Hornet. The codes are dialed in and the second Tomahawk missile is deactivated, blowing apart before it would have destroyed Honolulu. The Pentagon calls off the air strike. The remaining crew members are freed as the ship sails towards San Francisco harbor. Ryback is checked by a Navy doctor, kisses Jordan and the crew looks on and cheers. The film ends with a funeral ceremony for Captain Adams being held on the deck of the Missouri, showing the Captain's casket with a flag draped over it and Ryback saluting in his formal dress uniform with full decorations.