Wayne and Garth now do their acclaimed Friday-night TV show in an abandoned doll factory in Aurora. At the end of the broadcast, Wayne, Garth, and his friends, head into the Mirthmobile, and off to an Aerosmith concert. After the band's performance, Wayne and Garth head backstage , and praise Aerosmith like they did to Alice Cooper in the previous film. That night, Wayne has a dream in which he meets Jim Morrison  and a "weird naked Indian" , in which Morrison tells Wayne that his destiny is to organize and put on a big concert. Wayne then asks when Garth's football phone going to arrive, Morrison said it was sent to the wrong house and will arrive in the morning along with a swimsuit magazine and Stanley Cup video. The next morning, Garth showed up with the phone, magazine and video, which convinces Wayne to put on the show. Wayne and Garth dub the concert "Waynestock" and get to work, by, firstly, at Morrison's request, to hire his former roadie, Del Preston , who, surprisingly had the same dream as Wayne. Their early attempts to sign bands and sell tickets fall flat, however, and Wayne wonders if the whole thing was a good idea. Wayne's girlfriend Cassandra, meanwhile, has a new producer, Bobby Cahn , who slowly tries to pull her away from Wayne  and Illinois. After Wayne admits that he was spying on her, Cassandra breaks off the relationship and hastily gets engaged to Bobby on the rebound. Garth meets a beautiful woman, Honey Hornée , at the laundromat, and she quickly ropes him in with her charms. Eventually, it is revealed that Honey is manipulating Garth into killing her ex-husband, and Garth quickly bails on the relationship. Back in the real world, tickets for Waynestock are finally selling, but no bands have shown up. Wrestling with what to do, Wayne departs the festival grounds so he can find Cassandra, leaving Garth to keep the rowdy crowd in check. In a parody to The Graduate, Wayne travels to a church and breaks up Cassandra's wedding before escaping the ceremony with her. Meanwhile, Garth has stage fright during the concert. Upon returning to Waynestock, the bands still have not shown up. As in the first film, three endings occur. *Wayne and Garth consult Morrison, who said that no one will come, telling them that all that matters is they tried. They turn around to go back to Waynestock and they lose their way, not knowing how to escape the desert dream sequence, and therefore presumably die of thirst . *They drive their car to find the bands, but a helicopter corners them, so they drive their car off a cliff . *The promised bands arrive and the whole event is a huge success . ===Waynestock=== In the movie, Waynestock is held in Adlai Stevenson Memorial Park, in Aurora, Illinois. The acts that Wayne books include Crucial Taunt , Aerosmith, Rip Taylor, Pearl Jam, and Van Halen. Aerosmith performs "Shut Up and Dance" at the concert. Additionally, the Gin Blossoms and Nash Kato  can be seen being escorted out of a limousine-length Mirthmobile by the weird naked Indian as the closing credits begin.