Wayne Campbell  and Garth Algar  are the hosts of Wayne's World, a local Friday late-night cable access program based in Aurora, Illinois, where they ogle pictures of beautiful celebrity women, play guitar and air drums, and interview local people, indirectly making fun of them over the course of the interview. The program is popular with local viewers. One day Benjamin Kane , a television station executive, is visiting a girlfriend  who turns the TV to the show. When she tells him how many people watch the show, he instructs his producer Russell Finley  to find out where the show is taped, telling him they may have an opportunity for a huge sponsorship. Benjamin shows up next week in Wayne's basement and introduces himself after the show ends. He offers to buy the rights to the show for $10,000  and to keep Wayne and Garth on for what he describes as a "huge" salary. Garth then covertly speaks to the audience, sensing he has a bad feeling that Wayne is selling out, but he is too shy to confront Wayne about it. Following the purchase of the show, it is quickly "reinvented", complete with a weekly interview guaranteed to Noah Vanderhoff , the show's sponsor. The first reinvented show is also their last, as Wayne holds up a series of cards with questions on the front and, unknowingly to Vanderhoff, insulting phrases on the back such as "Sphincter Boy" , "He blows goats...I have proof" and "This man has no penis", prompting Benjamin to call Wayne up to the control booth and fire him on the spot. At the same time, Wayne's blossoming relationship with hard rock vocalist and bassist Cassandra , the frontwoman of a band named Crucial Taunt, leads to a rift forming between Wayne and Garth. It erupts when Wayne walks out on the show after getting fired for writing rude comments and gestures on the back of some cue cards, leaving Garth to a bout of stage fright for the rest of the show. The two separate, but later make up after Wayne breaks up with Cassandra following an argument between them over Benjamin. While making up with Garth, Wayne remembers a limo belonging to record executive Frankie Sharp  outside an Alice Cooper concert in Milwaukee. He also remembers that a security guard at the concert  said that Sharp would be riding through Chicago later that day and forms a plan with Garth to get her back. With everyone in the donut shop helping, Wayne is able to convince Cassandra, who is at a video shoot directed by Benjamin, to leave the shoot with the band and head back to Aurora with him to perform on the show. Garth, meanwhile, hacks into a satellite system and is able to route the signal from the broadcast into the television set in Sharp's limo. In the meantime, the police keep Benjamin at bay and leave him unable to enter the house until the show's over. Nearing the end of Cassandra's song, Frankie Sharp and Benjamin enter the basement. Once the song is finished, Frankie says to Cassandra that it is the wrong time to sign her band, causing her to become infuriated with Wayne. Wayne is called small-time by Benjamin just before he leaves with Cassandra, and Wayne's crazy ex-girlfriend Stacy  comes in to announce to Wayne that she is pregnant. Suddenly, an electrical fire starts from the broadcasting equipment and consumes the house. While Wayne walks out of the burned-down house with an injured Garth, Cassandra lies in paradise with Benjamin. Wayne and Garth then decide they don't like that ending, and decide to do the "Scooby-Doo ending" instead. Wayne then pulls off Benjamin's face, revealing that he is actually Old Man Withers, who then remarks, true to Scooby-Doo form, "And I would have gotten away with it, too, if it hadn't been for you snooping kids!" After this, Garth imitates Scooby-Doo by saying "Good One, Shaggy." Wayne and Garth then decide to do the "mega happy ending", where Frankie gives Cassandra a six album record deal, Wayne and Cassandra kiss, Russell and the crew member who keeps saying "I love you" get together, while he announces how he discovered that "platonic love can exist between two grown men", Noah is glad people are seeing him in a new light after he started sponsoring Wayne's World, Benjamin realizes being successful doesn't get you everything, and Garth finally gets his dream girl .