Peter Colt , an English professional Tennis Player in his thirties whose ranking has slipped from 11th to 119th in the world, considers he never really had to fight for anything as his wealthy but not close family easily put him through studies and allowed him to pursue his Tennis ambitions, he bravely exchanges jokes with his German sparring partner Dieter Prohl , who is in a similar position. Tough, he earns a wildcard spot to the Wimbledon tournament, but internally feels that it's time to admit he's getting too old to compete with fitter coming men  and intends, after this last Wimbledon, to take a job with the prestigious tennis club instead. However, as Wimbledon begins, by accident, he bumps into Lizzie Bradbury , the American rising star of female tennis, falls in love with her and finds her interest in him changes his entire perception, even gives him the strength to win again. As their love grows, Peter's game becomes better and better, but her game starts worsening as she spends too much time with Peter, ignoring her practice and tiredness. However, her overprotective father-manager Dennis Bradbury  proves determined to nip their relationship in the bud, believing it detrimental to her career. One day, Dennis comes to Peter’s old flat and yells at him for spoiling his daughter's game. She overhears this and decides to leave him and focus on her game. Both of them play several games with different opponents and win. But without Lizzie’s support, Peter's confidence and concentration start to shake. Lizzie enters into semi-final while Peter also manages to reach semi-final but with difficulty. The night before their semi-final games, Peter sneaks into Lizzie’s hotel room and persuades her to have sex. Initially, she denies as she requires more rest and sleep for her semi-final game next morning, but later on agrees to. Next day, he performs quite well and wins his semi-final match in straight sets, whilst Lizzie loses her match due to tiredness for lack of sleep and losing her focus after last night together with Peter. Lizzie gets upset and breaks their relationship while accusing his madness and last night greed for sex as cause for loss of her match, her dreams and perhaps her career too. She leaves before he can say or explain anything and decides to immediately return to USA. Peter has to play the final match against Jake Hammond , an arrogant American star who Peter has already had an argument with involving Lizzie, but finds himself out classed. At the airport, Lizzie watches an interview on TV in which Peter apologizes to her and declares his love for her openly. She drops her idea to go home, and comes back to Wimbledon. Before Lizzie reaches the stadium, Peter has already lost two sets and is running behind in the third one due to the fast and forceful tricky serves by Jake. He has lost all of his focus due to the breakup with Lizzie. Before the game is interrupted by rain, his back muscles get stressed and he has started thinking about quitting the game rather than face a sure defeat. Suddenly, Lizzie comes to him in the dressing room and tells him that she has forgiven him, and prepares him to play and face the fate rather than quit. She tells him the secret about Jake’s tricky serves. With Lizzie cheering him on, Peter makes a recovery in the game and wins the title  with a diving volley. After the game he retires from tennis. He and Lizzie get married, and with his support, Lizzie goes on to win the U.S. Open and Wimbledon twice, ultimately achieving her dreams. In the last scene, Peter is with their youngest child, a boy, watching Lizzie and their eldest child, a girl, playing tennis together on a neighborhood court in New York City.