mr. speaker , i rise in opposition to the rules package that we have before us today .  it is outrageous that my republican colleagues have placed before us a rules package that at best lacks integrity , and at worst is completely unethical .  as the highest body of elected officials in our country , we should be held to the highest ethical standards .  but instead , my republican colleagues have opted to put before us a rules package that actually lowers our ethics standards , so that they may promote their own agenda , at whatever cost .  this rules package makes it far more difficult for ethics investigations to take place .  by requiring a majority of the ethics committee before an investigation can even begin , we are in great danger of diminishing the integrity of our great institution .  with this new rule , the majority party can effectively block any ethics investigation of a member of their party .  this is an abuse of power .  and it 's not just democrats who oppose this plan .  americans across the country have expressed their opposition to this plan .  my democratic colleagues and i have a better plan that will strengthen the ethics rules to improve congressional accountability and to make sure that legislation is properly considered .  the republican plan fails to close a loophole that allows legislation to be considered before members have read it .  last year this led to the passage of a provision that would have let the federal government deeply invade citizens ' privacy by reading their tax returns .  i am appalled that the republicans have failed to include the democratic provision to tighten this loophole .  mr. speaker , i urge my colleagues to vote `` no '' on the resolution , so that we do not allow this rules package to become law .  mr. speaker , i rise for a constitutional point of order .  mr. speaker , the resolution we are preparing to consider , the proposed rules for the 109th congress , in my judgment violates the united states constitution which we were just sworn to uphold and defend .  it does so by allowing a very limited number of members , potentially only a handful , to constitute the house of representatives .  article 1 , section 5 of the constitution states that `` each house shall be the judge of the elections , returns and qualifications of its members , and a majority of each shall constitute a quorum to do business ; but a small number adjourn from day to day , and may be authorized to compel the attendance of absent members. '' unfortunately , h. res. 5 seeks to allow a small number not just to adjourn or compel attendance , as the constitution stipulates , but to enact laws , declare war , impeach the president , and fulfill all other article i responsibilities .  the very first act of the very first congress of the united states was to recess day after day after day because they lacked a quorum .  just moments ago everyone in this body took an oath to uphold and defend the constitution , and now our first official vote is by rule to undermine a fundamental principle of that constitution , i.e. , what is a quorum .  it is my understanding that the speaker is reluctant to judge on matters of constitutionality .  i respect that .  but i would reserve and inform the speaker it is my intent to ask the question of consideration to be put .  mr. speaker , consistent with the oath of office that i just took , i would request that the question of consideration be put to the body .  mr. speaker , on that i demand the yeas and nays .  mr. speaker , the chairman of the committee on standards of official conduct is correct when he says that ethics reform must be bipartisan and if the house is to have meaningful bipartisan ethics process , changes of this magnitude can be made , as they were in 1997 , only after thoughtful , careful consideration on a bipartisan basis .  there has been no effort to look at the rules changes on ethics in a bipartisan manner .  in 1997 when i co-chaired the committee on ethics reform along with bob livingston , the changes that we made were done after deliberation , and after democrats and republicans , working together , came before the house and we did make major changes .  and we instituted the 45-day rule for assigning a proper complaint for investigation ; but we changed the rules in 1997 .  we made it clear that you can move towards an informal investigation without a finding that it merits further inquiry or a resolution of preliminary inquiry because we did not want any matter of guilt or wrongdoing for the committee to be able to get the facts necessary to decide whether to go to formal investigation .  yet this rules change which would allow after 45 days inaction to dismiss a complaint makes inaction action , and it can be done on a very partisan basis .  now , that is wrong .  that is not how it should be .  the rules as they are currently configured in order to move a complaint past the committee , you have to have the bipartisan agreement of the committee because you have to have a vote in the committee .  it guarantees a process will move forward in a bipartisan manner and , in fact , the committee on standards of official conduct has operated in a bipartisan manner because of the way the rules are configured .  if this rule is changed , you are making it much more likely that the committee on standards of official conduct will act in a very partisan matter because they will be able to delay for 45 days , which does not take a lot of effort to figure out how to delay for 45 days .  we have enough lawyers on the committee on standards of official conduct that will be able to figure out that one .  and it will be done on a partisan basis that will leave a cloud on the member and a cloud on this institution .  you should not have that in this rule .  mr. speaker , we are making a terrible mistake here today by changing the rule in terms of the provision that would simply require no action after a 45-day period because , as the earlier speaker immediately preceding me indicated , what we will have done is change a nonpartisan committee that is based on a nonpartisan process into one that provides for a partisan veto over action where the behavior of an individual member or members is at question .  that , i suggest and submit , is something that this institution will suffer from .  there has been much discussion recently regarding this package .  it was anticipated that there would be additional provisions that were not submitted today , but let us be clear what is at risk here .  it is the confidence of the american people in the integrity of this institution .  perception , as we all know , is reality .  and when the american people understand very clearly that we now have a committee on standards of official conduct in which either side has a veto , it will undermine the confidence of the people in our ethical process .  my question to the proponents would be , what is wrong with the current rules ?  we have operated on them .  mr. speaker , as has been the case for a number of years , the rules package put forward by my republican colleagues continues to trample on the rights of the minority .  it will do nothing to stop the abusive practices in this house such as the 3-hour vote on the medicare bill in the middle of the night .  in fact , it allows the speaker added discretion to reconsider votes that the republican majority loses .  in addition , the new rules require an affirmative vote by the ethics committee before any action can be taken .  this , in effect , gives my republican colleagues the right to block any investigation .  i would like to focus on one portion of the package that will create a permanent committee on homeland security .  while i am sure some of my colleagues believe that the new committee will improve our security , unfortunately this new committee will be nothing more than a costly addition to the expenditures of the legislative branch , and it will likely breed a new wave of `` turf warfare '' among the committees of the house .  we simply do not need a special committee every time we face a crisis .  the process under which we are being asked to approve this change is particularly troublesome .  i call your attention to the last time the house felt compelled to create a new committee .  in 1980 , some members of the house believed that it would be wise to create an energy committee .  it used a careful process in which a committee on committees was created , consisting of democrats and republicans .  when that committee reported its recommendations to the house , substitutes were permitted , and the result reflected a thoughtful understanding of how best to achieve the objectives .  in contrast , we are now being asked to consider a proposal which was sent to us just yesterday .  it was hatched in secret by our republican colleagues without the input of any democrats .  while many of my democratic colleagues may agree with the need for a new committee , the right of the minority to have their views considered and voted upon has been trampled once again .  i also oppose the notion that a new committee is needed .  if the main concern is one of oversight , we can use our existing committees to do the job .  if members still believed that a new committee was necessary , it need not have legislative jurisdiction .  i am certain that is such a committee had legislative recommendations of merit , the appropriate committees along with proper actions by respective party leaders would ensure the bill would come to the floor .  instead , i foresee a new committee that will seek to increase its powers by introducing bills granting all manner of new authorities to the department of homeland security .  in addition , thoughtful bills addressing aspects of homeland security reported by the existing committees will now be delayed as the new committee will seek referrals .  and needed responsiveness by the executive branch to the existing committees may be hindered .  while the 9/11 commission urged a reorganization of congressional committees to deal with homeland security , it is odd that this new committee will have no jurisdiction over the issues that were identified by the commission that led to the 9/11 tragedy .  the new committee will have no jurisdiction over the intelligence community , the law enforcement community , or immigration enforcement .  it is a shame that the first day of this new congress should be marked by an attempt to authorize a new committee without so much as an open markup to consider its merits .  moreover , it would be extremely unwise to ignore the expertise and experience of existing committees as we address homeland security issues , but we are starting down that path today .  mr. speaker , i thank the gentlewoman for yielding me time .  the gentlewoman is correct : i currently serve on the committee on standards of official conduct .  and despite what i read in the morning papers , the republican leadership is eliminating a major traditional ethics standard of the house .  while we are relieved that the republican leadership did not go as far as they wanted to , i do not think we can be happy with the trend that is clearly downwards as it is today .  the new rule means no ethics violations will be investigated of party leaders , whether they be republican or democratic , control their members , since a tie vote means a dismissal .  the logical result is more partisan political pressure on the committee members .  america was intended to be a city on a hill with the highest standards for the government in the world ; and sadly , today we are lowering those standards .  the majority is proud of their political power and their skills at political games , and politics is an important part of our business ; but principles must be held above politics because no man can serve two masters , both principles and politics .  when we are guided by only political consideration in the house leadership today , the house abandons its principles and the moral compass .  i do not enjoy serving on the committee .  i do know something about legislative ethics , having first been elected to the state house of representatives after a tremendous sharpstown bank scandal in texas 1972 .  born and raised in texas , i understand what it means about conservative government , but i can not begin to explain how eliminating a traditional ethics standard is conservative in the slightest .  the house leadership can fool some of the people some of the time , like they did today when the papers said they were dropping ethics changes , when they clearly continue to weaken the standards .  however , the people recognize this for what it is , a weakening of our government 's ethics in pursuit of political parity by one party , be it democrat or republican .  mr. speaker , i am pleased that the rules package includes a provision that will make the homeland security committee a permanent committee .  more importantly , we will be giving the committee real oversight and legislative jurisdiction .  but i am disappointed that the majority has only given shared jurisdiction to the homeland security committee in some areas .  this creates the potential for ongoing turf battles that the 9/11 commission warned against .  i am also discouraged that the majority has decided to add a third day of suspension bills to the legislative calendar each week .  an increasing amount of legislation is being passed by the house under a suspension of the rules .  this is unnecessary and keeps us from doing the real business of the house -- budgeting , appropriations and oversight .  a perfect example of this is the massive omnibus appropriations bill passed for fiscal year 2005 just a few weeks ago .  this bill was rushed to the floor , ignoring the house rule requiring a 3-day review period before voting on conference reports .  only after the house voted on the bill , careful scrutiny of the language uncovered a provision allowing certain members and staff access to any american 's tax return .  not only was this an embarrassing episode for the house leadership , it continued a troubling trend .  in 4 out of the last 5 years , the majority has made a massive omnibus bill the only option to fund the government .  this take-it-or-leave-it approach is not acceptable and is fiscally irresponsible .  congress has also been asleep at the switch when it comes to funding for iraq and the war on terrorism .  this administration continues to fund the war on terrorism by supplemental appropriations .  this is not a temporary war .  congress needs to stand up to this white house , stand up for honest budgeting , and require that funding for iraq and the war on terrorism be made on-budget , and through the regular appropriations process .  by appropriating through omnibus bills and budgeting by supplemental , congress is surrendering its constitutional duties .  the results of this practice are ballooning deficits -- the cbo confirmed that the 2004 deficit is the largest in history , $ 413 billion -- a lack of follow-through to determine how appropriated funds are being spent .  without proper oversight as a backstop , problems in the executive branch can spin out of control .  members are learning about problems for the first time through the newspapers , not as a result of tough oversight hearings .  this kind of lax or nonexistent oversight contributes to situations like we saw in abu ghraib prison .  now we have learned about secret , permanent detention facilities in the united states where possible terrorists are held indefinitely , without any legal status .  mr. speaker , we need to take a hard look at our priorities and get back to doing the business of the house .  we should be moving forward with a tough , focused oversight agenda , and a schedule that devotes more time to priority , must-pass legislation and less time to suspension bills .  instead , it appears that we are adopting a rules package today that will bring us more of the same .  mr. speaker , i strongly oppose the changes in the house ethics rules that the republican majority is seeking to adopt today .  the proposed republican rule changes would cripple the ethics process in the house and dramatically lower the bar for standards of official conduct .  late yesterday , the republican majority in the house released the details of its rules package for the 109th congress .  some of the newspapers reported this morning that the majority had abandoned its efforts to loosen rules governing members ' ethical conduct , but this is not the case .  while the majority backed away from some of its rule changes , the most egregious ethics change remains .  this provision would make it much more difficult for the committee on standards of official conduct to investigate allegations of wrongdoing by members of the house .  under current rules , if the ethics committee deadlocks on whether or not to pursue an ethics complaint against a member of the house , the matter automatically goes to an investigative subcommittee .  under the proposed change , a complaint against a member would be tabled unless a majority votes to take action on it within 45 days .  since the committee is evenly split with five republicans and five democrats , either political party could simply block an ethics complaint by stonewalling and running out the clock .  there is no doubt that if the proposed rule change had been in effect during the last congress , no action would have been taken against the members of the house who were reprimanded as a result of the ethics committee 's investigation of bribery allegations raised in connection with the vote on the medicare prescription drug act of 2003 .  the committee would have deadlocked and the entire matter swept under the rug 45 days after the complaint was made .  i was listening to the debate on this earlier .  the chairman of the ethics committee said that he does not favor this change .  he said he would like it removed .  why then is the majority leadership pursuing this change , when it is opposed by the ranking republican on the ethics committee ?  at a time when public confidence in congress is so low and the nation faces so many challenges , it is inexplicable that the first order of business in the new session is to water down the ethics rules in the house and make it even more difficult to discipline lawmakers who abuse their office .  this should not be a partisan matter .  the proposed rule change harms the integrity and credibility of the house as an institution , and that reflects badly on all of us , republicans and democrats alike .  i urge all my colleagues to join me in opposing this assault on ethics enforcement in the house .  mr. speaker , i rise in opposition to the proposed changes in the ethics rules .  i served for 8 years on the committee on standards of official conduct , and it is not an enviable assignment .  but members who have never served on the committee would be proud of how these tasks are approached .  it is a committee that is evenly split .  in the 8 years i served , we had unanimous votes .  the members who serve think about the institution .  they are there to serve the american people and the institution .  it has not been a partisan body .  it has been one that holds other members to a high ethical standard .  these rules will undermine the committee on standards of official conduct , and the process of using the committee on rules rather than the committee on standards of official conduct to deliberate on the changes is also undercutting the committee on standards of official conduct .  i recommend that we do not support these rule changes .  and i also want to mention on the homeland security provision of the rule , it is a huge mistake to `` murky up '' the jurisdiction over cybersecurity .  we are at tremendous risk for a cyberattack , and the changes in that area will make us less safe .  mr. speaker , i thank the gentlewoman for yielding me this time .  mr. speaker , the first day of a new congress should be a day for hope .  it should be a day when all of us look forward with optimism to the work ahead .  but today is not that kind of day .  instead , the leadership of this house is beginning the new year in the worst possible way , by gutting the ethical standards of the united states house of representatives .  talk about starting off on the wrong foot .  in the rules package before us today , the republican leadership is sending a very clear message .  they are admitting that they are so ethically challenged that they can not conform to the rules they previously adopted , so they must now relax those rules .  what an awful example to the nation and to the rest of the world .  we should be strengthening the ethical standards of this house , not weakening them .  mr. speaker , the republican party regained a majority of seats in this body in 1994 , in part by promising greater accountability and a more honest system in the nation 's capital .  their actions have been anything but honest ; and now with this rules package , their rush to the bottom continues .  today is just one more example of the ethical lapses we have seen in this house , a house where major legislation is now written by industry lobbyists , a house where members are not even given the courtesy of being able to read bills before they are voted on , and a house where bad behavior is not reprimanded , but rewarded .  as members of congress , we should be held to the highest possible ethical standards .  that means not breaking the law .  that means not dancing around the law , and that means conducting ourselves in a manner that reflects credibility on the house at all times .  facing the possible indictment of a member of their leadership , the republicans attempted in secret to change the rules to protect their ethically challenged colleagues .  however , in the face of mounting public controversy , the public leadership caved last night and rescinded the change .  they blinked and they buckled .  but the speaker 's spokesman commented on this flip-flop saying that the issue had become a `` distraction. '' not wrong , mind you , but just distracting .  i am getting whiplash just watching all this stuff .  but , mr. speaker , let us be clear that the republican leadership did not find religion in this issue .  if they believed that what they were about to do was truly wrong , they would not have proposed these rule changes in the first place .  but while republicans try to pull a fast one claiming that the majority leader fell on his sword for the good of his party , the truth is that the rules package for the 109th congress still in a very meaningful way fundamentally weakens the ethics system here in the house of representatives .  i strongly urge the american people and members of the press and my colleagues to closely examine these rule changes , especially those made to the ethics standards .  under the old rules , a properly filed ethics complaint is automatically investigated if that complaint is not acted upon within 45 days .  remember , as the gentlewoman from new york stated , that the ethics committee is evenly divided between democrats and republicans ; and to ensure that partisan politics did not prevail in the ethics process , a tie vote ensures a formal investigation .  but under this proposed rules package , there must be a majority vote to investigate a properly filed ethics complaint ; and if that complaint is not acted upon with within 45 days , that ethics complaint dies .  in other words , mr. speaker , the chairman of the committee , whoever that may be , could stonewall the process , refuse to call for a vote , and ultimately kill any ethics complaint without any action .  but this also allows any member potentially under investigation to run the clock out by stonewalling investigators until the 45 days are up .  the american people deserve better than this from their elected representatives .  we serve at the pleasure of our constituents , and we have a responsibility to uphold the highest ethical standards .  over the past decade , the republican leadership has careened down the pathway of irresponsibility , and now we are at a crossroads .  there are those of us who truly believe members of congress should be held to a higher standard and who will make a stand and fight for real accountability from our colleagues , and there will be those who blindly follow their leadership , who vote to weaken the rules of this institution , first written by thomas jefferson , because they fear the retribution of their leaders .  this should be a place where honesty and integrity are the standard , not a place where the rules are changed merely to protect a powerful few from their own ethical shortcomings .  mr. speaker , we can stop this debacle .  let us start over .  let us make this right .  let us make the house of representatives an example of high standards and ethical decency .  i urge my colleagues to vote `` no '' on this rules package .  mr. speaker , i rise in opposition to h. res. 5 , to the republican rules package .  specifically , i oppose the proposed changes to rule x , which among other things creates a permanent standing committee on homeland security and grants legislative jurisdiction to that committee .  i am not opposed to the creation of a permanent homeland security committee .  indeed , i believe that the homeland security committee should be made permanent and should be granted jurisdiction over the overall homeland security policy of the federal government .  further , i believe that a homeland security committee is needed to oversee the internal administration of such a large federal agency as the department of homeland security , dhs , which has over 180 , 000 employees .  although h. res. 5 includes these provisions , i oppose its grant of legislative jurisdiction to the new committee of areas that have previously been the jurisdiction of other committees .  i oppose this grant of jurisdiction , not because of some desire to protect existing committees ' `` turf '' , but because transfer of these security issues to a new committee divests from the responsibility for those issues from those members who have substantial experience and expertise -- in some cases developed through decades of work -- on them .  the existing committees are best equipped to give the full house the benefit of carefully thought out recommendations that provide effective security without unnecessary risks to safety or economic efficiency .  it will take years for a new committee to be able to develop the expertise to provide the house and the nation with reports and recommendations of the quality that existing committees provide .  it is not enough to say that members with particular areas of expertise will have an opportunity to be heard on these issues .  the most effective way to influence policy is to be part of the debate and discussion in the early stages of policy formation ; simply voting yes or no when legislation makes it to the house floor is generally not sufficient participation to craft policy .  i take this position on the basis of my 30 years of experience in the house , during which time i have given high priority to security , particularly the security of our transportation system .  h. res. 5 would divest responsibility for dhs ' transportation and port security functions from the transportation and infrastructure committee , t & amp ; i committee , and transfer it to the homeland security committee .  however , transportation and port security can not be considered in a vacuum .  developing sound security legislation requires balancing security risks against the economic and safety impacts of such measures on transportation industries and their customers .  for example , we would not want to install technology on aircraft to protect against missile attacks if that technology would create disproportionate safety risks .  in addition , security mandates are only one type of requirement imposed on transportation industries .  other requirements include safety , consumer protection , environmental , accessibility , and competitiveness statutory or regulatory mandates .  any security legislation or regulation must be considered in the context of the costs and benefits of all such requirements governing transportation industries .  the committee on transportation and infrastructure has the responsibility and the expertise to broadly consider security risks , weigh all costs and benefits of proposed requirements , and determine the likely effects of such actions on transportation industries , their customers , and the existing framework of other statutory and regulatory requirements .  the t & amp ; i committee , time and again , has proven it 's capable to ensure that the u.s. transportation system is efficient and safe , as well as secure .  in the aftermath of the pan am flight 103 tragedy , the t & amp ; i committee developed the landmark aviation security improvement act of 1990 ( p.l .  101-604 ) , which mandated background checks for airline and airport employees and the deployment of bomb detection equipment for baggage at our nation 's airports .  during the 1990s , our committee continued to respond to the changing security needs through oversight and legislation .  in the aftermath of the september 11 attacks , the t & amp ; i committee developed and considered the aviation and transportation security act of 2001 , atsa .  atsa established a new transportation security administration , tsa , federalized the screening workforce , and required the screening of all checked baggage to protect against terrorist threats .  the aviation subcommittee alone has held 19 hearings on aviation security issues since september 11 .  since september 11 , the t & amp ; i committee has also spearheaded important maritime and port security legislation including the maritime transportation security act of 2002 , and the coast guard and maritime transportation act of 2004 .  the t & amp ; i committee has the member expertise , the staff , and the institutional memory to deal with these issues .  i believe that the quality of congressional oversight and legislation on these issues will suffer if these issues are simply transferred wholesale to a new committee .  it will take years for the new committee to develop the institutional background and expertise that currently resides in our committee .  finally , the republican conference drafted these changes to rule x in isolation .  democrats were afforded no role in crafting this critical security policy .  i believe the proposed changes to rule x do not further the security of this nation .  instead , i fear that they will hamper security by divesting from those members with the experience and institutional knowledge of these issues the direct responsibility to craft security policy .  for all of these reasons , i oppose h. res. 5 .  mr. speaker , i rise in opposition to what i consider a shameless rules package which will undermine the ethical standards held by this house .  after the elections in november , the first thing the republican majority did was to lower the house 's ethical standard .  in an act of unprecedented shamelessness , they changed the rule of their party to permit an indicted member of their party to remain in a leadership position .  yesterday , in the face of an overwhelming bipartisan and public condemnation they changed their rules back .  this is not shocking .  what is shocking is that they ever considered it in the first place .  even more shocking , just if you think you have seen it all , is that the majority considered deleting the most fundamental of ethics rules which says that members of the house should be held to the highest standards of ethical conduct .  it says a member shall conduct himself at all times in a manner that should reflect creditably on the house of representatives .  dropping this rule is unthinkable .  yet republicans only decided to keep it last night when the issue became too hot for them to handle .  thank heavens it became too hot for them to handle , but what is completely apparent to the public and those who follow the congress is that the republicans did not leave it at that .  they went on to make new mistakes , to undermine the ethical standard of the house .  instead of a bipartisan effort to strengthen the ethical process , the republicans have engaged in a completely partisan exercise that should be an affront to every member on either side of the aisle who has served in this body .  the proposed changes which are still in this rules package are destructive , and they are unethical .  mr. speaker , i know of what i speak .  i served on the committee on standards of official conduct for 6 years , and then for a seventh year i served as a part of the bipartisan committee to rewrite the ethics rules .  it is bipartisan , evenly divided , and we came up with new ethics rules , some of which survived the floor that year in 1997 .  the package that was put together was meant to be fair to members as well as uphold the high ethical standards .  it says that members should be judged by their actions and by the rules of the house and the law .  so it was only about what took place , the facts and the law .  it was not about rumor .  it was not about hearsay .  it was about the facts , the rules of the house and the law .  there was a process which was fair to members because , as i say , as someone who has 7 years on the ethical process , that it is very hard to make judgments about our peers .  it is a very , very difficult task , and we want to be fair , but we have a higher responsibility to uphold that ethical standard .  so it was put forth and has been the rules of the house and the committee on standards of official conduct that in order to cease or dismiss a case , we had to have a majority of the committee on standards of official conduct .  that would be eliminated today .  that would be eliminated today .  so , on a partisan basis , there could be no cases that go forward .  either party with half the votes in the committee , evenly split , could cease and desist any complaints from going forward .  that is simply not right .  the point of the committee on standards of official conduct is to have a process in which to deal with ethics complaints against members .  the point of the committee on standards of official conduct is not to whitewash or to have a system that says nothing will ever move forward .  what could the republicans be afraid of that they would so fundamentally undermine the ethical process of the house to say we are going to establish a system where nothing will ever go forward ?  this simply is wrong .  we owe it to the public , we owe it to each other to uphold that ethical standard .  so , as i say , on the first day of this new congress , the republican majority is publicly demonstrating what has been evident for some time , and that is its arrogance , its pettiness , its shortsighted focus on their political life rather than to decide how we are each of us fit to govern .  here is the thing .  we have this rules package before us .  they did some flash last night so that the press is saying , oh , they blinked .  they did blink on a couple of different scores , but the fundamental challenge to the ethical standard of the house being enforced is still in this rules package , and it should be rejected .  democrats have made two proposals .  one of them is to remove this change , and that would be a vote on the previous question , and then on the motion to recommit we address two other abuses of power that should be addressed in this bill .  one is what i will call the tauzin rule , and the democratic motion to commit would forbid a member of congress to negotiate with an outside entity that has business before his or her committee and before the congress , in the current congress or in a previous congress , called the tauzin rule because mr. tauzin , who managed the medicare bill , was at the time being courted by the pharmaceutical industry which was to benefit from provisions in the prescription drug bill , a rumored $ 2 million a year salary for selling america 's seniors down the river .  that is simply wrong .  has this become an auction house ?  the public has to think and believe that when we are here and we are on the public payroll and we are members of congress that our accountability is to them and not to our next job .  i call that the revolving door , shorthand for the tauzin rule , and the impact of that is a very , very bad prescription drug bill that put pharmaceutical companies first , seniors last .  in our motion to commit we also address the 3-day rule .  as many of my colleagues recall in recent memory , there was occasion on the floor when a huge bill of many thousands of pages , containing nine appropriations bills , seven of which never appeared on the floor of the united states senate , came before this house where the matter was overnight passed in the committee on rules , came to the floor the next morning without any chance of members being able to read the bill .  it came under the martial law rule the republicans use by which they say we waive the 3-day rule by a simple majority .  it should take two-thirds , but by a simple majority we waive the 3-day rule .  well , why was it important ?  it was important that day because there was a great deal in that bill that members did not know about that they were voting on and should not they know that , but very specifically in that bill and it was not found out until the because of the egregiousness of that and the violation of privacy of the american people , i insisted that the members come back to vote on that rather than just have it be done by unanimous consent to remove that provision from the law .  why did i call members back ?  so that the american people will know because of the abuse of power in this house , ignoring of the 3-day rule , that members can not even see what they are voting on before they vote on it , and something like looking at your tax returns could be sneaked into the bill , without any safeguards to protect people from that .  that is just one example .  another example is the medicare prescription drug bill which came to the floor without proper time for review as well .  the list goes on and on .  in our motion to commit , we address the abuse of power of a powerful chairman , negotiating for a job while he was a member of congress , who had control of the bill over the industry , which was offering him $ 2 million a year .  that is how much it cost to sell the american seniors down the river , and i hope that even if you separate yourself from any of the examples and just say i sent you to congress to represent me , you do that in what you say there and how you vote , and i expect that you know what you are voting on .  the message to the american people here this afternoon is a vote for the motion to commit , is a vote for members to be able to read a bill before they vote on it .  is that asking too much ?  the republicans say it is .  so a yes vote on the motion to commit gives members the 3 days which under the rules of the house they are entitled to .  a vote for the motion to commit stops the unethical process of members negotiating with people outside , whose bills they are managing inside this congress , in this congress or in the previous congress .  the previous question vote would say no to the republicans in their evisceration of the ethical process of this house by saying that you do not need a majority to dismiss a case ; you can just do it if all the members of your party on the committee decide to stick with you on it .  it is simply not right , and this should not be partisan .  that is really what is really sad about it .  everything that we have done in the ethics process has had some level of respect to the extent that it has because it has been bipartisan , bipartisan in writing the rules , evenly divided committee , cooperation between the chair and ranking member .  today is a major departure from that , and i guess maybe i have just spent too many long hours for too many long years in the committee on standards of official conduct room trying to respect the rights of members and our higher responsibility to uphold an ethical standard .  to see the republicans today run roughshod , rigging the rules , negotiating for jobs , no reading of the bill , it is an outrage .  it is an absolute outrage .  so i urge my colleagues to vote yes on the previous question , yes on the motion to commit , and by all means , however you vote on those , no on this very shameful rules package .  mr. speaker , i yield myself such time as i may consume .  mr. speaker , all over washington and in the country , people are talking today about the majority 's last-minute decision to abandon rules changes that would have eviscerated longstanding ethical guidelines in this house , and , with that , the integrity of the institution .  and while in the end the majority was right to withdraw these provisions , they hardly deserve our congratulations .  the republicans simply succumbed to tough criticism from every major ethics group in washington , several major news organizations and house democrats .  the rules changes in question were so egregious that rank-and-file republicans would not support their leadership 's plan .  the proposals were so offensive that the ethics committee chairman broke with his own leadership on the issue .  one of the changes would have permitted members , indicted by a grand jury on felony counts , to continue to hold house leadership positions .  the measure was similar to a conference rule the house republican conference passed last fall to protect its leadership in the event that one of them is indicted .  the fact that they ever considered changing the rules of the house in this disgraceful manner is a sad commentary on the ethical compass of this body 's leadership .  they also planned to eliminate a 30-year standing rule that members of congress could be disciplined for actions that brought dishonor and discredit on this house , the people 's house .  this standard is similar to the one that exists for the men and women serving in our military .  how could they even think about changing the house rules in this regard when to do so would mean demanding a higher ethical standard from an 18-year-old private in the army than we who sit in this hallowed chamber ?  how could we ask more from our young people than we ask of ourselves ?  it is hard to believe that there was a time in the not too distant past when the republicans touted their high ethical and moral standards .  mr. speaker , it seems to me that this entire episode has been a violation of the public trust .  when americans enter their voting booths and cast their ballots for congress , they give us a very precious gift , their trust .  american voters expect , and rightly so , that we as members of congress will conduct ourselves at the highest ethical standard and uphold democratic principles such as integrity and accountability .  how can we as the guardians of democracy spread the values of self-governance across the world if we refuse to govern ourselves right here in this chamber ?  mr. speaker , though we should all be relieved that the republicans were shamed into abandoning the most overtly egregious provisions , the remaining ethics provisions in today 's legislation will still destroy the house ethics process .  i can not say it more plainly than that .  the ethics process will be destroyed .  the tactics have changed , but the end result is the same .  the house ethics system will be gutted .  mr. speaker , the committee on standards of official conduct is the only evenly divided committee in the house .  as the rule stands today , if the five republicans and five democrats on the committee do not reach agreement about the merits of an ethics complaint , it is automatically referred to investigators .  this approach was designed to take the partisan politics out of the equation and to ensure that meritorious complaints would be investigated regardless of the political winds of the day .  under the republican rules package , one-half of the committee will now have the power to bury complaints , even the most meritorious ones .  under the rules package before us today , if the committee is deadlocked , the ethics complaint dies .  this one provision gives the republicans an enormous amount of control over who is and who is not investigated by the committee on standards of official conduct .  in practical terms , the republicans have granted themselves veto power over any complaint it does not deem palatable .  mr. speaker , this rules package would effectively eliminate the 45-day deadline the committee on standards of official conduct currently has to act on complaints .  the 45-day requirement was designed to prevent ethics complaints from being buried away from public view and to ensure that those members who should be held accountable for corruption would be .  this provision ensures that no ethics complaint will move forward against a republican without their leadership 's consent .  mr. speaker , we can be sure that if these rules changes had been in place in the last congress , no ethics complaints would have seen the light of day .  under the republicans , the ethical climate in washington has eroded enormously .  when i speak to constituents , i find myself telling them to forget what they learned in school about how a bill becomes a law .  in times past , our laws were written to serve the public interest .  but today the sad reality is that corporations like enron write our nation 's policies .  the medicare drug bill that was rammed through congress in the dead of night stands as a potent example of the ethical erosion of the house of representatives .  when the dust settled on the prescription drug vote , former representative billy tauzin , the key author and then chairman of the committee on energy and commerce , had himself the republican rules package will reduce this committee to a paper tiger .  the american people deserve much better than to have a `` for sale '' sign placed on the united states house of representatives .  they deserve to be able to trust their elected leaders and have faith in the integrity of this institution .  they should be able to expect accountability from their government .  unfortunately , the lesson we have here today is if you have the power and you break the rules , you can just change the rules .  mr. speaker , i know there are members on the other side of the aisle , because i know them , who care greatly about the integrity of this chamber , and i know that there are freshmen members here today eager to cast their first vote on behalf of the constituents whose trust they hold and the constitution they love .  i challenge those new members , and any other republican who values integrity and the sanctity of the democratic process , to stand up for the values of those who trusted you to represent them .  mr. speaker , at the close of this debate , i will be asking members to vote `` no '' on the previous question so i can strike from the rules package language that would allow the republicans to run out the clock on serious ethics complaints .  immediately following that vote , i will ask for a `` yes '' on a motion to commit the resolution so that we can add two important rules changes .  the first would prohibit members from negotiating lucrative job deals that capitalize on their committee membership .  the other would guarantee that members have at least 3 days to read a house report before voting on it .  when bills are rushed to the floor , cobbled together at the last minute , warm from the machine , pages are missing or , worse , outrageous provisions are slipped in by committee staff .  lest we forget , the provision that opened up private taxpayers ' records that was sneaked into last year 's omnibus spending bill was by just such a staff member .  mr. speaker , i urge my colleagues to vote to strike the egregious ethics changes in this package .  we owe it to the constituents we serve , to this institution , and to the constitution that we adore and revere to restore the ethics and integrity to the people 's house .  mr. speaker , i reserve the balance of my time .  mr. speaker , after the vote on the previous question , i will call for a yes vote on the motion to commit .  my motion to commit will prohibit sitting members of congress from negotiating for future employment with any person who has a direct interest in the legislation referred to any committee on which that member serves .  it also includes a rules change that would require a two-thirds vote in the house to waive the requirement in our standing rules that members must have 3 days to read the committee reports .  mr. speaker , i ask unanimous consent to insert a statement as part of that immediately prior to the vote on the motion to commit .  mr. speaker , i urge a no vote on the previous question .  i call on all members of this house , particularly the freshmen casting their first vote , please vote for ethics today .  do not vote against the constitution .  vote for this house that you will love and revere as all of us do on both sides of the aisle .  please vote no on the previous question and vote yes on the motion to recommit .  mr. speaker , i yield back the balance of my time .  1630 mr. speaker , on that i demand the yeas and nays .  mr. speaker , i offer a motion .  mr. speaker , on that i demand the yeas and nays .  mr. speaker , on that i demand the yeas and nays .  mr. speaker , during rollcall vote no .  3 on consideration of h. res. 5 , i was unavoidably detained .  had i been present , i would have voted `` nay . '' mr. speaker , i thank the gentleman from california ( mr. dreier )  for yielding me time .  mr. speaker , my question to the gentleman concerns the change to the rules that would allow members to use campaign funds to purchase cell phones .  as you know , there is a law that prohibits a member of congress from using the resources of their office or their office to solicit campaign funds .  it is my hope that allowing campaign cell phones to be used in a congressional office is not in any way a back-door attempt to allow a member to use a campaign cell phone from their congressional office or any federal facility to raise funds to get around this prohibition that currently exists in law .  just for a clarification , the use of a campaign cell phone in this building ?  to solicit campaign funds with a campaign cell phone .  mr. speaker , i thank the gentleman .  mr. chairman , i yield myself such time as i may consume .  in listening to the sponsor in terms of the need for this legislation , one could intimate by the introduction that possibly medals were given out in a haphazard manner .  i mentioned before it takes two-thirds of the members of the house , the entire body , to introduce a gold medal for its consideration in the committee on financial services , a bar that i believe is a very , very high bar and one that is not easily attained .  i would also point out that limiting this to individuals , and again to reiterate , martin luther king and coretta scott king were both issued the gold medal .  they would not have gotten that medal under this legislation .  harry and eliza briggs , levi pearson , and reverend joseph armstrong delaine were all issued the medal in one provision .  as mentioned before , nancy reagan , along with president reagan , would not have been eligible .  under the provisions today , they would have to get it individually .  betty and gerald ford , the little rock nine , and dr .  graham and ruth graham would not have received it either .  i think therein lies a tremendous flaw .  it also intimates that there may be too many of these gold medals given out .  who that received this medal in the past was not worthy of it ?  was it dr .  martin luther king and coretta scott king ; was it reverend delaine , harry and eliza briggs , and levi pearson ; was it jackie robinson ; was it dorothy height ; tony blair in the last congress ?  in the 106th congress was it nancy reagan ; was it pope john paul , ii ; was it charles schulz , the great cartoonist ?  was it rosa parks ?  who amongst those was not qualified , who do we believe was not deserving of this medal .  therein lies the flaw in this bill .  it actually limits us from giving to those who i believe are most deserving of recognition of this gold medal .  mr. chairman , would it be safe to say under regular order if this legislation were passed that the code talkers , under regular order , and that was an extraordinary provision made in the appropriations process , under regular order would they be eligible to receive this medal in the future if this bill were to pass ?  mr. chairman , if the gentleman will continue to yield , that is the point i am trying to make .  to say that the code talkers , and i am not saying the gentleman is suggesting this , but to suggest that they did not deserve the ultimate award , even as a group , for what they provided to the service of this country during world war ii is just ridiculous .  they certainly deserved as a group .  any one individual , no .  there were multiple individuals who provided an incredible service to us .  i would also point out that two is not individual .  two individuals makes up a group , to my understanding , and that would include nancy and ronald reagan .  that would include any husband and wife , including dr .  king and coretta scott king .  that would preclude them from getting this medal in the future .  that is my understanding of the legislation before us .  mr. chairman , i want to recognize the significance of this medal , that it is not given out willy-nilly ; that , as i mentioned before , it takes extraordinary measures to get enough support to get this medal passed .  i recognize that the first person who received this medal was general george washington , prior to him becoming president of the united states , when the country was brand new , when we did not have the richness of diversity and of events that have taken place throughout the history of our country ever since this first medal was given to george washington ; that we have grown as a nation , in size and in stature ; and that there have been many events that have occurred throughout our history since the striking of the first medal that have inured greatly to the advancement of our country that from time to time need to be recognized .  that is what this medal gives an opportunity to do , both to individuals and to groups .  certainly general washington was an incredible individual , someone who was deserving of the first medal that was ever produced , and i think he accepted that on behalf of all those men and women who fought for independence from great britain back during the war of independence .  but certainly we have grown in size , both in states , from thirteen colonies and states to 50 states , and the number of people in this country have grown incredibly since the founding of this nation , and the events that have occurred throughout our history has certainly changed the shape of the distribution of this medal as well .  i think that needs to be recognized and taken into consideration .  if the gentleman will yield further , let me just make a point .  i appreciate what the gentleman from delaware has said .  the reality is , though , a country of 300 million people , only 20 medals have been awarded in the past decade .  that is not an awful lot of medals .  the point that the gentleman is making is that it has been extraordinary when we have actually issued this medal to groups .  why are we now limiting ourselves ; when it is extraordinary , recognized as extraordinary , why are we now officially and legally limiting the ability of congress to issue this medal to groups ?  i do not understand that .  we understand the process is hard .  the gentleman has just said himself to get two-thirds of the members of this house truly requires bipartisanship to get this done .  this is not done , as i mentioned before , in a willy-nilly manner .  there is great effort involved .  i understand it .  i remember when my friend from new york ( mr. fossella )  was doing this for john cardinal o'connor and the effort that it took to get both sides to get enough members to sign onto that .  i do understand the difficulties in that , but i hope the gentleman understands the appreciation that has been set forth by my testimony here today as well as my good friend from texas ( ms. jackson-lee )  that sometimes , not ofttimes , it is not just individuals , but it is groups who are responsible for incredible , incredible events in this country and i believe are deserving of the congressional gold medal .  i hope that the gentleman would agree with that and we will have a motion to recommit that will , if passed , put this back to committee and will strike that language limiting it only to individuals .  mr. chairman , i demand a recorded vote , and pending that , i make the point of order that a quorum is not present .  mr. chairman , i appreciate the gentleman 's comments .  i know that the gentleman does not approach this in any other fashion but a bipartisan fashion .  but the question i have is if we are going to limit this to two per year , it could be that five members on our side of the aisle have five individuals they want to recognize .  there could be five individuals on the republican side of the aisle who have five individuals they want to recognize .  that is 10 people , 10 bills , 10 instances where members have garnered two-thirds .  who then will decide who gets the medals ?  it then becomes a very political decision as to who gets each of the medals .  will it be the five on the majority side ?  will it be two from the majority side ?  will it be two from the minority side ?  will it be one each ?  who of the 10 deserving will get it , and who will not get it ?  mr. chairman , if the gentleman will yield further , the rules will have changed once we pass this bill , whereas right now it is unlimited .  granted , where it is unlimited , there has not been this rush to introduce bills .  as the gentleman mentioned before , this is not done in a very quick fashion .  this is done in a bipartisan way .  but when we limit it to two per year , we are putting a cap on it , i think we can in the future find ourselves in a situation where , all right maybe five on each side is a little much , maybe two on each side .  then which of the four ?  who makes that decision as to which of the four gets the medal ?  and therein lies the politics .  unfortunately , i think you are creating more politics in this bill .  i do not think that is your intent .  i think you are doing this because you want to enrich the value of the gold medal .  i understand that .  but i think inherently by the changes being proposed , you are bringing more politics into the decisionmaking as to who obtains this medal .  that is what i am trying to in a sense , avoid by evenly dividing between democrat and republican , majority , minority , the ability for both sides to equally participate in this process .  mr. chairman , i yield myself such time as i may consume .  unfortunately , i think that in the past there may have been some politics involved .  i understand that one of my colleagues on this side had achieved the requisite number of signatures for a commemorative gold medal for the columbia 107 in the last congress , in the middle of the last congress , and that was never awarded .  so i do not know why .  i do not know if there was any reason for that , when the requisite number of signatures were given , that that bill was not taken up in the committee and that member was not successful in getting that award to the columbia 107 .  why that was not done , i do not know .  i do not know if politics was part of that .  maybe someone can answer that question .  but therein lies the problem , that from time to time , quite possibly there is politics involved as to why some individuals receive the gold medals and others do not .  mr. chairman , i reserve the balance of my time .  mr. chairman , i demand a recorded vote , and pending that , i make the point of order that a quorum is not present .  yes , i am opposed to the bill in its current form .  mr. speaker , today we begin the 109th congress in earnest , and we do so by considering a bill that we do not need to act on for a problem that , in our view and in the view of many of my colleagues , simply does not exist .  we considered this bill today not in the spirit of openness and bipartisanship that should categorize the democratic debate in the house , but with a restrictive rule that did not allow us to have a debate on a key issue : whether one of the highest honors that can be bestowed upon citizens of our country for their extraordinary deeds , a congressional gold medal , can be awarded to one individual or more for their collective honorable or heroic actions .  mr. speaker , if this bill passes in its current form , not only would it limit medals to two per year , but it would prevent the house of representatives and the senate from awarding medals in the future to any group of individuals for their collective heroic deeds , such as those of the hundreds of first responders that perished in the 9/11 terrorist attacks .  i am puzzled why we would act to impose such limits on our own ability to recognize the accomplishments of the citizens that we are elected to represent .  and i am even more puzzled that we would fix a process that is not broken , that is bipartisan in nature , and that works remarkably well for all members .  the bipartisan process we have in place has allowed us to honor the reverend martin luther king and coretta scott king ; nancy and ronald reagan ; betty and gerald ford ; pope john paul ii ; the little rock nine ; the leaders of brown v. the board of education ; jackie robinson ; civil rights leader dorothy height ; the navajo code talkers ; general henry shelton ; charles schulz ; john cardinal o'connor , archbishop of new york ; father theodore hesburgh ; rosa parks ; nelson mandela ; mother teresa ; frank sinatra ; ruth and billy graham ; ecumenical patriarch bartholomew ; british prime minister tony blair ; and others .  but under this bill , mr. speaker , we may not be able to honor nancy and ronald reagan jointly , nor betty and gerald ford jointly , nor martin luther king and coretta scott king jointly , nor the little rock nine , nor the navajo code talkers .  and under this bill my colleague , the gentlewoman from texas ( ms. jackson-lee )  , will be prevented from honoring the fallen astronauts from the space shuttle columbia .  in the 108th congress the gentlewoman from texas worked hard to gain the requisite two-thirds cosponsorship of the house for a bill that would honor these fallen american heroes posthumously with the congressional gold medal .  it is only right that the rule of the house be honored and that her hard-won efforts be not undone by this bill .  since the majority party gained control of this house in 1995 , 20 gold medals have been enacted into law either to an individual or a group of individuals .  using the process we currently have in place , 10 gold medal bills out of 20 were sponsored by republican members , and 10 were sponsored by democratic members .  how can anyone possibly argue that the existing process does not work ?  we are fixing something that simply is not broken .  unfortunately , the bipartisan spirit that has characterized the house 's consideration of gold medals in the past has not carried over to the debate on this bill .  not only did we do not have an open rule , but today represents the first time this house is debating this issue in any form .  the committee responsible for legislation on this bill , the committee on financial services , on which i serve , has not held a single hearing on this bill , let alone a markup .  the limited debate over this bill on the house floor may culminate in the passing of a bad bill , unless my colleagues join me in voting in favor of sending this bill back to committee , where we can have a meaningful debate , and where we can determine whether limiting gold medals is truly in the interest of the public and in the interest of the house .  mr. speaker , the house has become the 109th congress on a bad note : we are considering a bill with almost no meaningful debate , and it proposes to represent a solution to a problem that simply does not exist , a problem the record shows does not exist .  does this action foretell what lies ahead in terms of the existence of bipartisanship throughout this congress ?  i urge my colleagues on both sides of the aisle to do the right thing , to vote in favor of my motion to recommit this bill back to the committee on financial services and to allow this house to take a closer look at this legislation to determine whether it really meets the interests of the american people .  mr. speaker , on that i demand the yeas and nays .  mr. speaker , i demand a recorded vote .  if the gentleman would yield , i appreciate my good friend 's good suggestion , and i am prepared to begin yielding time to colleagues who are present to begin speaking .  mr. chairman , on rollcall no .  11 , crowley no .  3 , had i been present , i would have voted `` aye . '' mr. speaker , i rise in opposition to this resolution .  it may seem peculiar , but , frankly , i think that the military does not need this resolution .  it is not broken out there .  they are having the ability to recruit .  even despite the negative news from iraq , the recruitment numbers are up for all the services .  what this resolution does is sort of breaks this feeling in america that democracy allows divergence of opinion and that the people that own the real estate should have a voice in who can visit that real estate .  we do not have any nationally owned universities , yet this resolution requires equal access for all military recruiters at institutions of higher education .  i think we are getting into a really slippery area here because you are going to create within those campuses huge debates that students are going to say , we do n't like this stuff being jammed down our throats .  we and the faculty and the trustees of a university ought to be able to decide who can visit our campus , as they do in all other things .  for example , here in washington , d.c. , catholic university does not allow pro-abortionist recruiters to come and talk on the campus , and here you are going to require , regardless of what the issue should be , that military recruiters have to be allowed on campus .  i think it is a very slippery slope .  i do not think we need to go there , because the recruitment numbers are not down .  i think the military has historically stood on its own feet to do very well in recruiting without getting congress involved mandating that they have to be on campuses .  i think you are going to have a negative reaction .  i would urge congress very carefully to think about this and to vote `` no '' until we get a better thought on how we want to mandate democracy in this country .  mr. speaker , i come to the floor today in strong opposition to h. con .  res. 36 .  it is a standard practice for institutions of higher learning to include a non-discrimination policy as part of their mission .  these policies affirm that they do not tolerate discrimination on any number of issues : race , sex , religion , age , disability , social class , and sexual orientation .  these non-discrimination policies were created so that all people in our country have the opportunity to be an equal and respected member of higher education communities .  unfortunately the military has established a discriminatory policy , do n't ask do n't tell .  this policy unfairly excludes homosexuals from military service on the basis of their sexual orientation alone .  for example , numerous military linguists who are critically needed in the global war on terrorism have been discharged under do n't ask do n't tell .  supporters of h. con .  res. 36 say that denying military recruiters access to college campuses is a national security threat , but they are completely missing the big picture .  the real national security threat is the do n't ask do n't tell policy that forces our military to discharge gay servicemen and servicewomen regardless of their job performance .  i strongly believe that the non-discrimination policies of colleges and universities should be respected and i urge my colleagues to vote against this resolution .  mr. speaker , i am wondering , based on that argument , in the interest of efficiency , whether we might not substitute chat rooms for the floor of the house , and if being on the web site is a satisfactory way to bring a bill out .  maybe if we had chat rooms or instant messaging , we could probably save a lot more .  i would urge the majority , since this traditional kind of old-fashioned type of democracy does not seem to have much appeal , to go right ahead , might even save a little more money , by cutting back on what thomas jefferson or abe lincoln or one of those people might have thought was an appropriate way to conduct the business of democracy .  to begin , mr. speaker , it is absolutely backwards to decry this policy of excluding recruiters from using the facilities of a university .  let us be clear : no university can ban a recruiter from coming to that city or that town .  no university can say that students will not talk to the recruiter .  the question is not whether the recruiters can come and advertise ; it is whether they can compel the university to offer its facilities involving a policy with which they disagree .  but to say that that causes a problem in getting people in the military , it is the supporters of a policy that say to able-bodied men and women , we disapprove of your sexuality , and , therefore , no matter how talented you are , no matter how patriotic you are , no matter what skills you bring , you are not allowed here .  colin powell , when he was chairman of the joint chiefs of staff , testified before this congress that there was no argument that gay and lesbian men and women in the military were in any way deficient as members of the military .  he made it clear .  the only reason for excluding them was the prejudice of others .  that was the only reason .  the argument was : if you let these people in , and he said they had been good soldiers and good airmen and good sailors , it would be disruptive .  well , one , that was 15 years ago when he said that .  i think society has moved some .  but , second , we have experience to the contrary .  i know there have been people critical of the israeli defense forces in some respects .  i think they deserve , on the whole , a lot of credit for a difficult job .  in the israeli defense forces , people serve who are openly gay and lesbian .  so the argument that somehow allowing people who are honest about their sexuality , if they are gay or lesbian , to serve in the military makes you an ineffectual military , how do they explain the israeli defense forces ?  in fact , what we are again being told is that good people , able people , and we heard reference to the linguists .  this has become the policy of `` do n't ask , do n't tell , and by no means translate. '' you who support this policy are the ones , mr. speaker , who are depriving the armed services of able-bodied people .  you are the ones who have driven thousands , literally thousands of perfectly capable men and women out of the military because you disapprove of what they do in their spare time .  so then to claim that it is the universities trying to stand up for a principle that are weakening the military gets it absolutely backwards .  i was also saddened , i must say , by one of the previous speakers who said he wanted to express his disdain for the universities involved .  we have universities here which are trying to express their disagreement with what they believe , and i agree , but what they believe to be an unfair prejudice that singles out some of their students .  i understand disagreement with that , but disdain ?  disdain because people in these positions feel that their students should not be unduly stigmatized and denied this opportunity ?  if it is so important to have the opportunity , mr. speaker , should not people on the other side say , you can not deny these young people the opportunity to serve in the military .  should you not say , you should not deny these young people the opportunity to serve in the military unless they are gay or lesbian .  because if they are gay or lesbian , you want to deny them the opportunity to serve in the military regardless of any fault .  remember , this is one that says we just stigmatize you from the outset .  there is nothing you can do , there is no degree of service you can perform , there is no sacrifice you can offer to make that will allow you to serve your country .  and then we will complain because we do not have enough people to serve in the military .  and , again , literally thousands have been turned away .  the universities are not blocking recruitment .  they can not .  they are asking for the right to stand up for principle .  and now we are told by one other speaker , well , if they do not agree with the policy , you would think they would not accept the money .  please .  i would say to members , one rule in parliamentary debate : try to avoid saying something that no one will believe .  i mean , this notion that if you do not agree with a policy you should boycott the government , which is using your tax money , nobody believes that .  people get taxed , and sometimes they agree and sometimes they disagree .  we say to people , look , you can voice your opinion , but you can not avoid paying the taxes .  and , by the way , it is not money from the military they are seeking .  typically , what we have here are law schools .  it is law schools , as people have noted , who are doing this .  so people have said , well , what about the poor people ?  we are not getting enough wealthy people to offset the number of poor people .  well , we are talking about lawyers who are being recruited .  frankly , the poor people are not being recruited for the judge advocate general 's office .  it just does not compute .  but what they are saying is , we are not going to allow our facilities to be used in this discriminatory way .  and the law schools , by the way , are not themselves , and this is an important point , under the clinton administration the ruling was that we would look at each element of a university separately .  and if the law school said no military recruiting , that did not stop the medical school or the school of engineering from applying for federal funds .  what you now have is a policy that says if the law school says no , no other entity can get the money .  so there is no connection there .  the key issue here is this : have we not in this country come to the point where patriotic young gay men and lesbians who are prepared to serve their country will at least be given a chance ?  can you not judge them on their merits ?  can you not say , okay , we admire your willingness to do this .  we will judge you .  if it turns out you become disruptive , we will act .  but this blanket denial of even the opportunity no matter how talented , no matter how diligent ?  you enforce that as a policy , and then you complain that we have people being turned away ?  mr. speaker , i hope this resolution is not adopted , and i hope we will begin to reverse this blanket prejudicial policy that says to millions , millions of young american men and women , you need not apply to defend your country because we do not like some aspect about you , even if it is going to be entirely irrelevant to your service .  mr. speaker , i rise in support of our armed forces and in support of this nation 's continued efforts to give it the additional strength and stability it needs to keep our men and women safe .  the members of this house have joined their constituents in mourning the loss of life and injuries sustained in the course of america 's war and subsequent occupation of iraq for two years .  since the beginning of the iraq war in march 2003 , 1 , 423 members of the u.s. military have died , which includes 1 , 084 as a result of hostile action and 333 of non-hostile causes .  furthermore , my district of houston has experienced two deaths already since january ; six deaths in 2004 ; five in 2003 ; and numerous injuries over the course of the nation 's engagement .  no doubt , mr. speaker , i fully support the armed services .  in the spirit of achieving the goal of attracting the best and brightest candidates for service , i join my colleague from california in advocating this legislation .  however , we must support our troops in accordance with the u.s. constitution and with respect for civil rights and fundamental freedoms that are the rubric of this nation .  when the house debated h.r. 3966 , which would allow for the denial of federal funds for educational institutions unless military recruiters are provided access to the campuses of these institutions , i voted `` yes '' on passage of the measure with the understanding that no constitutional contravention would result from its implementation .  the resolution that is before the house today , however , is controversial because the final disposition of underlying federal jurisprudence could play a major role clarifying the way we apply constitutional principles to an act of congress .  the holding in forum for academic and institutional rights v. rumsfeld tells us that we must be very careful in the way we regulate society so as not to violate fundamental rights .  ( 390 f.3d 219 ( 3rd cir .  2004 ) ) .  so , mr. speaker , i do support the intent of this legislation because i honor the men and women who serve in our armed services and who sacrifice their lives for us .  however , i also support the upholding of the united states constitution and the respect for jurisprudence , and i believe it seriously damages our commitment to the three branches of government to encourage the interference with judicial decisions before a final rendering of a final review by the u.s. supreme court .  mr. speaker , i want to thank the gentleman from oklahoma ( mr. cole )  for yielding me the customary 30 minutes .  i also want to welcome him as a new member of the committee on rules .  mr. speaker , i thank the gentleman from massachusetts for his succinct observation .  mr. speaker , i insert in the record at this point two articles .  one is an editorial from the new york times entitled , `` the price of homophobia. '' another is an associate press story entitled , `` report : number of gay linguists discharged higher than thought. '' the price of homophobia do n't ask , do n't tell -- just scream in frustration : it turns out that 20 of the arabic speakers so vitally needed by the nation have been thrown out of the military since 1998 because they were found to be gay .  it is hard to imagine a more wrongheaded rebuff of national priorities .  the focus must be on the search for osama bin laden and his terrorist legions , not the closet door .  the pentagon 's snooping after potential gays trumps what every investigative agency in the war on terror has admitted is a crucial shortage of effective arabic translators .  after the first world trade center attack , in 1993 , government agents revealed an alarming shortage of arabic speakers .  key notes , videotapes and a phone call pertaining to the attack were later found in a backlog of untranslated investigative data .  the shortage continued right up to and well beyond the 9/11 attacks .  three years after the towers were destroyed , the f.b.i. , rife with translation problems , admitted it had an untranslated backlog of 120 , 000 hours of intercepts with potential value about looming threats .  at the state department , a study showed that only one in five of the 279 arabic translators were fluent enough to handle the subtleties of the language , with its many regional dialects .  the military 's experience is no more encouraging , with intelligence results muddied at times by a rush , as one inquiry put it , to recruit arab convenience store owners and cabdrivers , who could n't handle the task .  the military is right to rely more on its language schools , but it can take several years to produce fluent graduates .  the folly of using `` do n't ask , do n't tell '' policy against such precious national resources amounts to comfort for the enemy .  when president bush was asked last week by the washington post why osama bin laden had eluded capture , he replied , `` because he 's hiding. '' so is the pentagon -- it 's hiding from reality .  report : number of gay linguists discharged higher than thought san francisco ( ap ) -- the number of arabic linguists discharged from the military for violating its `` do n't ask , do n't tell '' policy was nearly three times as high as previously reported , according to records obtained by an advocacy group .  between 1998 and 2004 , the military discharged 20 arabic and six farsi speakers , according to department of defense data obtained by the center for the study of sexual minorities in the military under a freedom of information act request .  the military previously confirmed that seven translators who specialized in arabic had been discharged because they were gay .  the updated numbers were first reported by the new republic magazine .  aaron belkin , the center 's director , said he wants the public to see the real costs of `` do n't ask , do n't tell. '' `` we had a language problem after 9/11 and we still have a language problem , '' belkin said wednesday .  the military 's `` do n't ask , do n't tell '' policy allows gays and lesbians to serve in the military as long as they keep their sexual orientation private and do not engage in homosexual acts .  but belkin and other advocates say such a policy endangers national security at a time u.s. intelligence agencies and the military say they do n't have enough arabic speakers .  `` the military is placing homophobia ahead of national security , '' said steve ralls , spokesman for the servicemembers legal defense network , a nonprofit group which advocates for the rights of gay military members .  `` it 's appalling that in the weeks leading up to 9/11 messages were coming in waiting to be translated ... ..  and at the same time they were firing people who could 've done that job. '' but others , like elaine donnelly of the center for military readiness , a conservative advocacy group that opposes gays serving in the military , said the discharged linguists never should have been accepted at the elite defense language institute in monterey in the first place .  `` resources unfortunately were used to train young people who were not eligible to be in the military , '' she said .  `` we need to recruit people who are eligible to serve. '' in the fiscal year ended oct .  31 , 2004 , 543 arabic linguists and 166 farsi linguists graduated from their 63-week courses , according to a dli spokesman .  that was up from 377 and 139 , respectively , in the previous year , reflecting the military 's increased need for translators in iraq .  experts have identified the shortage of arabic linguists as contributing to the government 's failure to predict the sept .  11 attacks .  the independent sept .  11 commission made similar conclusions .  the government `` lacked sufficient translators proficient in arabic and other key languages '' to adequately prepare itself against future strikes , the report said .  `` it used to be this was seen as a gay rights issue , but now it 's clearly a national security issue , '' said nathaniel frank , a senior research fellow at the center for study of sexual minorities in the military at the university of california , santa barbara .  ian finkenbinder , a u.s. army arabic linguist who graduated from the defense language institute in 2002 , was discharged from the military last month after announcing to his superiors that he 's gay .  finkenbinder , who said his close friends in the army already knew he was gay , served eight months in iraq and was about to return for a second tour when he made the revelation official .  `` i looked at myself and said , `are you willing to go to war with an institution that wo n't recognize that you have the right to live as you want to , ' `` said finkenbinder , 22 , who now lives in baltimore , md .  `` it just got to be tiresome to deal with that -- to constantly have such a significant part of your life under scrutiny. '' finkenbinder said his commander was upset to let him go because his arabic proficiency was at the highest possible for a nonnative speaker .  the servicemembers legal defense network last month sued the government on behalf of 12 gay former military members seeking reinstatement .  they 're seeking to overturn `` do n't ask , do n't tell '' alleging it violates their constitutional rights .  mr. speaker , i yield myself such time as i may consume in closing .  this congress should be leading the way to end discrimination of any form in this country .  unfortunately , we have a resolution before us today that condones discrimination .  i think it is sad we are dealing with this today .  i urge my colleagues to vote `` no '' on the resolution .  mr. speaker , i reserve the balance of my time .  mr. speaker , i yield myself such time as i may consume .  mr. speaker , i do not accept the suggestion that the academic community is un-american and not in support of our military .  my friends in the academic community , and i have many in north carolina who are part of the academic community , they are good americans and they support our military completely .  i sincerely believe that these individuals have a genuine difference of legal opinion that must be resolved by our supreme court , and that is why i am supporting this resolution .  we need a determination by our supreme court of this matter .  mr. chairman , i rise in strong opposition of this bill .  it does nothing to make america safer .  it is simply anti-immigrant legislation placed under the mask of homeland security .  the bill will prevent states from giving licenses to undocumented immigrants .  it will not prevent terrorists from obtaining identification forms .  all of the 9/11 hijackers were in this country legally .  in fact , allowing immigrants to have licenses actually improves homeland security by allowing our government to track who is in our borders .  this bill will also raise insurmountable hurdles for refugees seeking asylum and will deport victims of persecution into the hands of their persecutors .  proponents of this provision claim that we need to tighten asylum laws , yet , they can not pinpoint a single terrorist given asylum in the united states .  this bill will also require the completion of a fence on the mexican border , waiving environmental laws in california .  this fence is a complete waste of money and resources .  people will go over it , under it and around it to enter our country .  our immigration system is a broken system that needs to be fixed .  we need reform that provides hardworking people of good character with a real path towards citizenship .  but this bill is simply a band-aid on the problem that will not provide lasting reform .  mr. speaker , i thank very much my friend from florida for yielding me this time .  mr. speaker , my opposition to h.r. 418 is for two reasons , one that is broader in the context of the problems we face , and one is specific to asylum .  i am just going to address the former on the issue of debating essentially an unobjectionable rule that simply allows for general debate and urge opposition on that ground alone .  the placement of the bill on this agenda at this particular time is a manifestation of the triumph of ideology over common sense , and it is a response to spasms of anger rather than a reflection of sober analysis .  contrary to the arguments of the republicans , including my friend , the chairman of the committee , including the majority leader of this house , the issues of immigration reform , border security , national security , and public safety are inextricably linked .  but we hear not one word or hint of any intention on the part of the majority in this house , in contrast with both the president and the leadership in the senate , of ever dealing with the fundamental issue .  our immigration system is broken .  the results of that breakdown endanger american security .  between 8 and 14 million people are in this country without legal status .  they live in our shadows .  they utilize false documents .  their true identity is unknown .  for the most part , they work and pay taxes .  and , except for their illegal status , they observe our laws .  they provide the overwhelming proportion of the workforce in critical industries .  they are located throughout the country and they are subject to all kinds of exploitation , but for a variety of reasons , they have no intention of leaving this country .  a few among them , without doubt , a few among them mean harm to americans and are plotting terrorist acts .  the status quo is simply intolerable .  but where the proponents of this bill are so wrong , so self-defeating , is in thinking that piecemeal fixes like this have anything to do with protecting americans against those who are plotting to harm us .  only a comprehensive approach that deals with issues like defense , like a nonforgeable identifier , a nonforgeable social security card , effective enforcement , and coming to terms with the status of the 8 to 14 million people who are working and linked to working and have committed no other crimes , getting them out of the shadows so we can know who they are , we can fingerprint them and match them to watch lists .  that is the only way to deal with the problem .  look at our situation .  the majority leader says `` this bill is a border security bill .  it is a homeland security bill .  immigration reform is a completely different subject. '' the chairman of our committee , the gentleman from wisconsin ( mr. sensenbrenner )  , says `` it is to everybody 's best interest to separate out the security questions from the immigration questions. '' but you can not .  president bush knows that .  he realizes that these gentlemen are wrong , that this analysis is wrong , that this piecemeal approach is not going to do the job ; and he has repeatedly called for a comprehensive reform of our immigration system because `` the current system results in diverting homeland security resources to chasing people who are here because they want to put food on their table .  they take resources away from catching criminals and terrorists. '' that is the president .  senator cornyn , the new chairman of the subcommittee on immigration and claims , no liberal he , realizes that the strategy of the gentleman from wisconsin is a mistake .  he said it pretty specifically , `` i do n't believe we can deal with border security and homeland security without dealing with immigration reform. '' aside from the asylum provisions , i do not have any heartburn about these , of course , in a world where we have fixed the system so it does not have 8 to 14 million people here out of status , illegally , undocumented , and people who should not get driver 's licenses .  but this will not solve the problem .  there will be people who are not going to be here legally , who will have driver 's licenses after this bill passes , and there will be people with false ids after this bill passes ; and you will not have dealt with the fundamental issue .  for that reason , more than any other , although the fundamental change of the asylum system that is going to keep people fleeing persecution from finding their historic asylum in this country , without dealing anything with terrorists who are already eligible for asylum , is another reason to oppose this bill , and i urge opposition on it .  mr. speaker , what i would have asked the gentleman from georgia ( mr. gingrey )  , had he been willing to yield some time , was to show me where in the 9/11 report it makes any reference to making any of the changes in the asylum law that are being proposed by the majority here in this bill .  there is no reference to that whatsoever , because the 9/11 commission knew that terrorists and threats to national security can not get asylum .  instead , the majority , because it does not agree with the commission on religious freedom , because it does not accept fundamental traditions of people who have a well-founded fear of persecution based on their political attitudes or their ethnicity or their religion or their gender , they do not want to make sure they are able to get asylum , they dump a whole bunch of things that have nothing to do with terrorism in here , not recommended by the 9/11 commission report , and then try to claim we are simply fulfilling the 9/11 commission recommendations .  mr. chairman , i appreciate the gentlewoman 's courtesy in permitting me to speak on this , and i agree with her very strongly .  make no mistake , our side of the aisle is supportive of this legislation .  we want to work with the state and local authorities first to do it right .  these are the people who feel these concerns every bit as strongly as members of congress .  in fact , they are on the line every day providing for the safety and security of our constituents in a much more immediate sense than we are .  do not be afraid to work with them .  but with all due respect to the gentlewoman from the district of columbia , i have one other provision that deeply offends me as a former elected official , as a member of this body and somebody who believes in checks and balances .  i look at section 102 .  i wish that it were buried in the legislation , but it is not .  it is right here in the beginning .  if this provision , the waiver of all laws necessary for quote improvements of barriers at the border was to become law , the secretary of homeland security could give a contract to his political cronies that had no safety standards , using 12-year-old illegal immigrants to do the labor , run it through the site of a native american burial ground , kill bald eagles in the process , and pollute the drinking water of neighboring communities .  and under the provisions of this act , no member of congress , no citizen could do anything about it because you waive all judicial review .  now , bear in mind you are giving this authority to the head of homeland security , hardly a paragon of sensitivity and efficiency .  anybody who stands in those lines week after week or watches the bizarre color-coded warning system knows that that is hardly the exemplar .  security at the borders is important ; and if somebody has a problem with building a security fence , by all means , congress should deal with it .  but as far as i know , no committee has been called upon to do that yet .  there are important waiver provisions that are available .  but waiving all laws for construction is an inappropriate decision .  and with all due respect , it is a dangerous precedent that anybody on either side of the aisle should be deeply offended by .  mr. chairman , i yield to nobody my concern that this bill has regarding the environment , but that is not the point .  we have already had our colleague , the gentleman from california ( mr. duncan )  , talk about how we passed specific legislation signed by president clinton that suspended the endangered species act .  what we are talking about here is far beyond this .  it is talking about suspending all laws , health , safety , immigration , payment for private property .  all laws , not the environment .  my colleagues would be creating not a couple of miles of exception to finish a fence , but you would be creating a zone 7 , 514 miles long under the terms of this bill , 5 , 500 in canada , almost 2 , 000 with the border of mexico , where all laws are suspended in the vicinity of the barrier .  my colleagues have no idea how much land they are exempting from compensation .  mr. chairman , there are only 11 , 751 people who have been privileged to serve in this chamber .  i do not think any of them have ever been asked to vote on anything more irresponsible .  it is a terrible precedent , unnecessary , and i urge its defeat .  mr. chairman , today 's bill would not be nearly as flawed or controversial if it had the benefit of going through the committee process .  unfortunately , we are faced with costly legislation that overturns states rights and does little to address the problems of our immigration system or to protect americans from another terrorist attack .  instead , this bill places enormous regulatory and financial burdens on state governments and makes department of motor vehicles ( dmv ) employees de facto immigration officers .  this policy promises to be ineffective as there are approximately 70 different kinds of immigration related documents issued by the federal government .  this bill will not deter illegal immigration ; it will probably mean illegal immigrants will drive without licenses .  in addition , in order to complete three miles of a border fence near san diego , section 102 of this bill suspends all laws , from public health and labor to the environment and property compensation .  in fact , all barriers and roads along 7 , 514 miles of u.s. borders would be exempt from all laws .  one person in the department of homeland security would be above the law without any judicial appeal or remedy .  this is unprecedented .  some of the environmental laws waived would include the noise control act , the clean water act , the farmland protection policy act , and the bald eagle act .  in addition to being bad public policy , this exemption is unnecessary , as most of these laws have security exemptions already written into them .  this legislation will not make us safer or reduce illegal immigration .  in the end , it is hard to imagine a more dangerous precedent .  mr. chairman , i move to strike the last word .  mr. speaker , i rise in support of h.r. 1268 , to authorize emergency supplemental appropriations for our military .  the vast majority of this $ 82 billion bill will go directly to support our troops in iraq and afghanistan .  congress has a responsibility to work with the president to protect the national security of our nation .  when our soldiers are sent in to war , it is the congress ' responsibility to make sure that all resources necessary are provided to carry out their missions .  i stand behind our brave men and women who have performed admirably in iraq and afghanistan .  they have made tremendous sacrifices on behalf of their country and have served longer deployments than expected .  this bill provides important new benefits for our troops and their families .  the legislation : increases the military death gratuity ; increases subsidized life insurance benefits ; creates a new insurance benefit for soldiers who have suffered traumatic injuries , such as the loss of a limb ; extends the basic allowance for housing for dependents of soldiers who die while on active duty ; and provides additional funding for add-on vehicle armor kits , night-vision equipment , and radio jammers that disrupt remote-control bombs and mines .  the conference report also contains important measures to strengthen our domestic border security , by providing funds for new border patrol agents , immigration and customs investigators , enforcement agents , and detention officers .  the bill also provides additional foreign assistance for : tsunami reconstruction ; humanitarian and peacekeeping programs in darfur ; democracy assistance in belarus ; and political and economic reforms in ukraine to strengthen their new democracy and legal system .  i regret that the administration has consistently failed to properly budget for our ongoing military and reconstruction operations in iraq .  congress should not repeatedly rely on emergency spending bills to provide the critical funding , resources , and equipment for our troops in battle by using emergency supplemental appropriations bills .  the united states is only belatedly seeking international support for our reconstruction efforts in iraq , and we have failed to broadly engage the international community .  because of these failures , americans have paid a heavy price .  it is primarily american troops stationed in iraq that face continuing attacks , and have lost life and limb .  it is our taxpayers that are being asked to almost exclusively pay the cost to rebuild iraq , and these costs are mounting every day .  iraq is already facing a difficult transition in establishing a democracy that operates under the rule of law and protects minority rights .  the u.s. must show enough flexibility in working with our allies to effectively help iraq during this critical transition period , so that other countries will pledge both troops and funds to alleviate the burden on our american soldiers and taxpayers .  ultimately , the best way that we can support our troops is to reach out more aggressively to the international community , establish order and security in iraq , and help the interim iraqi government assume more responsibility for its own affairs as they establish a democratic state .  i am also disappointed that the republican leadership decided to insert extraneous provisions into this legislation , which go beyond the scope of the 9/11 commission recommendations .  i voted against the `` real id act '' when it was considered by this house as a separate bill earlier this year .  i am particularly concerned that this legislation repeals a number of provisions of the intelligence reform and terrorism prevention act of 2004 , which enacted the recommendations of the 9/11 commission .  the 9/11 bill established a negotiated rulemaking framework -- allowing for critical input from governors , state legislators , state officials , and other stakeholders -- which would provide the opportunity to develop effective national standards for driver 's licenses .  i am concerned that this legislation does not give the states adequate flexibility to implement the 9/11 bill , and that this legislation may also create serious unfunded mandates and administrative burdens for the states .  as the ranking member of the helsinki commission ( commission on security and cooperation in europe ) , which promotes human rights and rule of law in europe , i am also concerned about many of the asylum law changes contained in the real id act , which again go beyond the scope of the 9/11 commission recommendations .  these provisions may have a harmful effect on true asylum seekers , trafficking victims , women and children who are victims of domestic violence , and others seeking protection against persecution .  this legislation may create higher burdens for legitimate asylum seekers , restrict judicial discretion to grant asylum , and take away some of the rights of appeal for certain refugees and asylum seekers .  over the past week i have heard from a number of groups in maryland that provide legal and social services to immigrants , asylum seekers , refugees , and survivors of torture and slavery .  these groups have reported to me that it is already extremely difficult for legitimate asylum seekers to prevail in their case , as they have often left their home country on short notice , and do not have documentation of their persecution .  it can take months or years for a case to work its way through our legal system .  during this period , the asylum seeker often has neither legal representation nor work documentation .  i hope that in the near future congress will have the opportunity , in a more thoughtful manner , to consider comprehensive immigration reform measures .  mr. speaker , i thank the gentlewoman from texas for yielding me this time .  i would like to join in the point that is being made by the gentlewoman from texas to remind all of our friends that when republicans took power in 1994 , they made a solemn promise to the states that they would make sure that there would be no imposition of unfunded mandates on those states , and today we have a chance to redeem that promise by voting `` no '' on consideration of this rule , which waives the unfunded mandate requirement .  the majority may , if they have not already , attempt to argue that it is a minor mandate and show new and improved cbo estimates showing that the cost of this bill is only $ 125 million over the next 5 years ; and , therefore , i think this warrants at minimum committee hearings in markups that has so far been denied this congress .  so we are not asking a lot this afternoon .  and i am impressed by the governors association .  their letter points out that while they commend the gentleman from michigan ( chairman sensenbrenner ) and the gentleman from virginia ( mr. tom davis ) for their commitment to driver 's license integrity , they find that those bills would impose technological standards and verification procedures on states , many of which are beyond the current capacity of even the federal government .  moreover , the cost of implementing such standards and verification procedures for the 220 million driver 's licenses issued by the states represents a massive unfunded mandate .  so they close by urging us to allow the provisions of the intelligence reform act of 2004 to work .  so i commend the gentlewoman from texas ( ms. jackson-lee )  for making such a very timely and important point of order , and i support her in it .  mr. chairman , i yield myself such time as i may consume .  mr. chairman , i rise , regrettably in opposition to this anti-immigrant legislation .  mr. chairman , if we truly believe in all we have heard about the importance of freedom and liberty from our president and others , then we have no other choice but to vote down this bill which denies so much freedom and liberty to the immigrants in our own country .  h.r. 418 includes provision after provision limiting the rights of refugees , imposing onerous new driver 's license requirements on the states , unfunded mandates , making it easier to deport legal immigrants , waiving all federal laws concerning construction of barriers and fences anywhere within the united states and denying immigrants long-standing habeas corpus rights .  this is a work of art that has to be examined very , very carefully and very critically .  if this measure becomes law , this will close america 's doors to cubans fleeing from their country , religious minorities attempting to escape religious persecution , women fleeing from sex trafficking , rape or forced abortions .  unfortunately , in our history , there have been a number of examples of this overreaction in the past .  for example , during the civil war , general ulysses grant , no less , sought to expel the jews from the south .  the aftermath of world war i brought the notorious red scare , and the very long remembered anti-immigrant palmer raids from the attorney general of that era .  of course , world war ii gave us the searing memory of the unconscionable internment of japanese americans .  in the wake of the 9/11 tragedy , and even after the patriot act , which did its share of violating the rights of those who were in this country , this legislation would even further target immigrants for crimes they have not committed and for which they are not responsible .  at some point we have to treat terrorism as a problem that requires intelligent response , as opposed to an excuse to scapegoat immigrants .  for all these reasons , there are so many groups lined up behind the american civil liberties union to oppose the bill : immigration rights groups , civil rights groups , civil liberty organizations , private rights groups , labor organizations , environmental groups , native american rights , states ' rights and international human rights groups .  so , i urge us in good conscience and serious concern over the direct and the subtle import of this legislation , please , we can not and should not close ourselves off to the most vulnerable members of our society .  mr. chairman , i ask unanimous consent that the gentlewoman from texas ( ms. jackson-lee )  be permitted to manage the bill on this side of the floor .  mr. chairman , i need my friend to know that they are in the process of having the claim heard .  it has not been terminated or it is not all over .  but we are arguing the substance .  what i was trying to figure out is , what inspired the gentleman at this late point in the proceedings , since we had hearings last year , we had no hearings this year , and we just found out about this yesterday .  mr. chairman , what i would like to find out , if the gentleman knows , has this ever occurred in the history of federal legislation before that for a given instance all laws , local , state , national , will be waived all at one time for one specific purpose ?  i thank the gentleman .  mr. speaker , i rise in strong opposition to this supplemental appropriations bill and the anti-immigrant legislation it contains .  if we truly believe all the rhetoric we hear about the importance of freedom and liberty from the president and others , we will vote down this bill , which denies so much freedom and liberty to immigrants in our own country .  h.r. 1268 includes numerous provisions limiting the rights of refugees , imposing onerous new driver 's license requirements on the states , making it easier to deport legal immigrants , waiving all federal laws concerning the construction of fences and barriers anywhere within the united states , and denying immigrants long standing habeas corpus rights .  if enacted into law , this legislation will close america 's doors to religious minorities escaping religious persecution and women fleeing sex trafficking and rape .  we have been down this road of overreaction in the past .  during the civil war , general grant sought to expel the jews from the south .  the aftermath of world war i brought about the notorious red scare and the anti-immigrant palmer raids .  world war ii led to the unconscionable internment of japanese americans .  in the wake of the 9/11 tragedy , and even after the patriot act , this legislation would further target immigrants for crimes they have not committed , and sins they are not responsible for .  at some point , we have to treat terrorism as a problem that requires an intelligence response , as opposed to an excuse to scapegoat immigrants .  it is for all these reasons that so many groups strongly oppose this bill , including groups concerned about immigrant rights , civil rights and liberties , privacy rights ; labor rights ; the environment ; native-american rights ; state rights , and international human rights .  i urge a `` no '' vote .  we can not and should not close ourselves off to the most vulnerable members of our society .  mr. chairman , i yield myself such time as i may consume .  i do want to close , if there are no further speakers , and acknowledge that we have important work to be done here .  we have highly professional personnel at the border , and they are doing their job , but we need to provide more of them .  we need to fund the border security proposals that we have been putting forward for some time .  we need to be sure that we fund those .  but the other piece of that , and i am delighted that the gentleman from arizona ( mr. kolbe )  has brought that forward , is to be certain that the most sophisticated applications of that technology are used on the border .  i speak to many companies in san diego .  i know that they have a great interest in this .  they have been a part of some of these solutions in the past .  let us employ them ; let us be sure that we are doing this in a comprehensive fashion .  so i want to thank the gentleman from arizona ( mr. kolbe )  .  we must move forward in this area .  we can do a far better job on the border than we have done before .  mr. speaker , i want to comment briefly on the $ 82 billion spending bill that will be approved today for the ongoing u.s. military campaigns in iraq and afghanistan .  i will support this bill .  i am pleased it includes additional money for body armor and armored vehicles for our troops .  it includes money to purchase bomb-jamming devices to protect our troops from roadside bombs .  i also support the improved life insurance death benefits for military personnel and their families .  and , i am hopeful that the additional funds that are in the bill to train and equip security forces in iraq all afghanistan will be expeditious and well spent .  this money is critical if afghan and iraqi forces are to take over security duties from american troops , which will allow our men and women to finally come home .  i have called for negotiating a timeline for the withdrawal of american troops with the new iraqi government , hopefully to be completed within the year .  but , for that to become a reality , well-equipped and competent security forces in iraq and afghanistan must be prepared to take our place .  this bill will help achieve that goal .  i am also pleased that the final bill retained language inserted in the senate directing the president to include future requests to fund the u.s. presence in iraq in his regular budget .  we have been in iraq for more than two years and in afghanistan for more than three years .  the fact that we still have troops in iraq should not come as a surprise to the budget writers at the white house and the pentagon .  it is not appropriate to continue funding these long-term , ongoing operations via supplemental appropriations bills , which are considered outside of the normal budget procedures and restrictions .  while i support the bill , i am outraged that , more than two years after the u. s. invaded iraq , the pentagon leadership has not gotten their act together to adequately protect our troops and to come up with a plan to get them home .  as columnist mark shields pointed out late last year , in the three years immediately after pearl harbor , the united states produced the following to win world war ii : 296 , 429 aircraft , 102 , 3351 tanks , 87 , 620 warships , and 2 , 455 , 694 trucks .  at the time , the u.s. population was 132 million and the size of our economy was less than $ 100 billion .  yet , approaching three years into the u.s. occupation of iraq , the united states , with a population of almost 300 million and defense spending of $ 500 billion a year , under the failed leadership of the pentagon , only 6 , 000 of the nearly 20 , 000 humvees in iraq are factory armored versions and more than 8 , 000 of the 9 , 128 medium and heavy trucks used in iraq are without armor .  despite repeated promises from the pentagon leadership that the situation is getting better , a recent article in the new york times showed that the emperor has no clothes .  as the article details , one marine company has returned home to expose the reality of their tour in iraq , `` one they say was punctuated not only by a lack of armor , but also by a shortage of men and planning that further hampered their efforts in battle , destroyed morale and ruined the careers of some of their most competent warriors. '' i have heard similar stories from the oregon national guard members i have talked to .  how did this happen ?  since the september 11 , 2001 , terrorist attacks against our country ; congress has provided the pentagon with $ 1.6 trillion -- $ 167 billion in supplemental appropriations bills for fiscal years 2001-2005 ; and $ 1.45 trillion in regular defense appropriations for fiscal years 2002-2005 .  today 's bill will add $ 75 billion or so to the pentagon budget .  given that level of funding , it is hard to understand why our troops continue to suffer shortages of critical equipment .  it is hard to understand until you remember that secretary rumsfeld and the other civilian leaders at the pentagon argued that our troops would be greeted in iraq as liberators with flowers and candy , not the bullets and bombs that have led to more than 1 , 500 of our soldiers getting killed .  before , the invasion , the pentagon planned to reduce our troop levels to 20 , 000-30 , 000 within a few weeks of overthrowing saddam hussein .  the fact that 150 , 000 u.s. troops remain in iraq more than a year and a half after the war began shows how badly the pentagon leadership miscalculated the post-war situation .  those miscalculations also led the pentagon to vastly underestimate the equipment that our troops would need to survive and succeed in iraq .  first , the pentagon leadership did not even order the necessary equipment like body armor , armored humvees and bomb jamming devices .  for example , under the pentagon 's original war plan , the pentagon planned to have only 235 armored humvees in iraq for the 20 , 000 troops who would remain after overthrowing saddam hussein .  then , when it became clear that this equipment was necessary , the pentagon did not procure it with any sense of urgency .  as the new york times article i mentioned above noted , `` the army 's procurement system , which also supplies the marines , has come under fierce criticism for underperforming in the war , and to this day it has only one small contractor in ohio armoring new humvees. '' the performance of secretary rumsfeld and his senior leadership at the pentagon has been a disgrace .  unfortunately , it is our troops who have had to pay the price .  mr. speaker , i rise in support of the war supplemental appropriations act but must voice my incredible misgivings for what the republican majority has attached to legislation that should solely be about how we provide for our brave men and women in harm 's way in iraq and afghanistan .  there is much in this bill to be proud of .  our military , despite the job of the civilian brass and this congress , have been performing heroically .  they have accomplished much more than we could have ever hoped for , and if any fault needs to be assigned it is to the policy makers , and not to those in uniform .  however , i am ashamed that this body has taken something as important as securing our troops , and attached a hastily considered immigration provision that will result in massive unfunded mandates being passed on to our states .  i am ashamed that the conference committee removed language that would have created a truman-style commission to examine war profiteering , largely to ensure that this administration would not be embarrassed .  finally , i am ashamed that this congress has turned its back on a promise made by our president to the palestinian authority to help improve the situation of the palestinian people and further the cause of peace for all in the middle east .  i am concerned that the immigration provisions will force our great nation to turn our back on the thousands of political and human rights asylum seekers who look toward america as their last and best hope .  the real id act will force the most vulnerable to have their torturers corroborate their tales of persecution .  i understand that we must protect our borders , and i understand that changes must be made to keep out those that seek to do us harm .  but we should not hastily foreclose the dream and promise of america because of fear .  we should not send back asylum seekers back to their torturers .  under these standards , iraqis seeking to escape the rape rooms of saddam hussein would have been sent back to the ba'athist prisons if they fled iraq without the proper documentation .  i am also dismayed that rather than seeking to be responsible stewards of the public 's trust , the republican majority in charge of congress once again decided to ignore its oversight responsibilities .  it seems that rather than doing our oversight job as a separate and equal branch of government , the gop leadership would rather save the bush administration and corporate ceos some embarrassment .  i am old enough to remember the truman commission .  i remember that sen .  truman went against a democratic administration , and saved our military and our tax payers billions of dollars in waste and fraud .  i can not understand why we do not do the same .  my friends on the other side of the aisle should be ashamed of the fact that mr. waxman  and i have probably done more on this front from the minority , than has anyone with a gavel .  reconstructing iraq and afghanistan is too important not to get it right , but confronted yet again with evidence of massive fraud and egregious war profiteering , my republican colleagues are again choosing to bury their heads in the sand , plug their ears , and turn out the lights on our duty .  finally , this bill , by intention or not , has the potential of undoing all the progress that the middle east peace process has made since the death of yasser arafat .  mr. speaker , the new president of the palestinian authority is in an almost untenable position .  in order for palestinian democracy to succeed over radical terrorism , president abbas must be provided with the resources to open hospitals , create jobs , arm a police force , build jails , and take the fight to the terrorists .  president bush recognized this .  he made a statement asking for $ 200 million to support a nascent middle eastern democracy .  instead of allowing president abbas to use american aid to build his security forces to take on terror , we instead set him up for failure .  my friends , if you want to see hamas win the upcoming municipal elections ; if you want to see the peace process come to an abject halt ; if you want to see more dead young israelis and young palestinians you should support this language .  it surprises me that the only thing that this congress is capable of bucking and embarrassing this administration on is the prospect of peace .  i hope , for the sake of peace , we can correct this colossal error in judgment and that the president and the state department speak out against congress ' ill-advised policy making on this most tragic conflict .  mr. speaker , i thank the gentleman for yielding me time .  mr. speaker , the real id act is a real travesty .  it has little to do with homeland security , and it represents just the latest in a string of anti-immigrant proposals so unfortunately popular with certain of our republican colleagues .  instead of putting the safety of our families first , these are the same folks that would have turned our emergency room doctors into border patrol agents ; who would have cut the funding to cities that did not conduct immigration raids ; and who would interfere with the people with whom our private banking institutions could serve and encourage instead an underground , black market financial system .  this same anti-immigrant fervor continues to fuel this bad bill .  the real id act is designed to make our roads real unsafe .  undocumented workers will be on our roads .  that is why the austin police department believes that texans would be safer if the law allowed all drivers to obtain licenses .  as assistant police chief rudy landeros testified , `` in allowing the community the opportunity to obtain driver 's licenses , they will have to pass a driver 's test , and that will make them not only informed drivers , but safer drivers. '' the texas legislature , in a bill by former representative miguel wise , wisely recognized that requiring all drivers to obtain licenses would make texas families safer .  had it not been for the veto by texas 's myopic governor , this common-sense call for public safety would be the law in the president 's home state .  legal immigrants could also be denied a license .  paula waddle , an immigration attorney in the rio grande valley , explained that her clients are having delays of as much as 15 months in getting their legal permanent residency papers because of confusion at the department of homeland security .  if these legal immigrants do not have sufficient paperwork to prove their legal status , they will be caught up in this same web of anti-immigrant fervor and denied the opportunity to obtain insurance and drive .  ironically , consideration of this bill coincides with the release this week by the u.s. commission on international religious freedom .  this proposal would worsen the plight of those whose conditions were the subject of investigation by that commission : asylum-seekers who already face deplorable conditions , who are often treated like common criminals and thrown into jail with common criminals , and who are subject to strip searches as well as solitary confinement .  but since current law already bars those who presnet a secruity risk from getting asylum , the additional restrictions in this bill would not make us safer .  we must not sacrifice our democracy in a misguided attempt to save it .  this bill strikes the wrong balance .  anti-immigrant hysteria can not be permitted to drive an agenda that makes us less safe , less healthy , and erodes our civil liberties while failing to address real terrorist threats .  the real id bill ought to be really rejected fast by this congress .  mr. chairman , as someone who for the past 2 years has represented over 40 , 000 soldiers at fort hood , texas , who have fought for our country in iraq , i am deeply appreciative of the expeditious manner in which the gentleman from california ( chairman lewis ) , the gentleman from wisconsin ( mr. obey )  , the gentleman from florida ( chairman young ) , and the gentleman from pennsylvania ( mr. murtha )  have worked together to pass this important piece of legislation .  this bill sends a very clear message to our troops in harm 's way that while americans may have differences of opinion about the iraqi war , the fact is that we are all unified when it comes to seeing that our troops in harm 's way have all of the support that they need and deserve to do their mission and to come home safely to their families .  in the area of responsibility for the subcommittee on which i serve under the committee on appropriations , the military quality of life and veterans affairs , and related agencies subcommittee , i wholeheartedly support the language and funding in this bill .  under our subcommittee is $ 3.1 billion in funding , $ 175 million of which goes to the department of defense health care system to deal with the direct increased costs for health care for our wounded troops coming home ; $ 1.5 billion to pay for housing allowance for our guard and reserve soldiers and their families ; and $ 1.3 billion in military construction needed in iraq and afghanistan and throughout our country to support our war against terrorism .  i enthusiastically and wholeheartedly support this bill .  i do want , mr. chairman , to express one concern .  the fact is that as of the end of december of last year , there have been 48 , 000 american troops coming home who have needed health care from the veterans administration health care system .  while we put $ 175 million in the dod part of this budget to take care of extra dod health care costs , there is not a dime in this supplemental appropriation bill to help the veterans administration deal with the cost of dealing with 48 , 000 and still counting troops who have needed va health care .  using the va secretary 's own testimony before our subcommittee last week , the average cost mathematically is $ 6 , 200 for treatment for each veteran within the va health care system .  multiply that number by the 48 , 000 troops coming back from iraq and afghanistan , and we are talking about an additional $ 302 million of cost to the va health care system to help provide needed care for these deserving patriots .  i do not think that money ought to come out of the hide of va health care services to other veterans , and i do not think we should cut corners in terms of quality of care for iraqi and afghanistan war veterans once they have left the department of defense system and gone into the va system .  in committee we heard some say the va is flush with money .  i have looked into that statement , and the fact is that the va is presently laying off hundreds of employees in the va medical system and taking money out of their equipment accounts to fund their personnel accounts .  during time of war and in the spirit of this bill supporting our troops not only when they are in the combat zone but when they return home , i think in that spirit we ought to , as this bill goes to conference committee , look specifically at what additional needs the va health care system needs , provide the quality medical care that these troops need .  if the war is worth fighting , certainly it is worth paying for and it is worth supporting those troops even after they have left the military and continue to pay the mental and physical price for decades for having stood up for our country .  so i would like to urge the committee chairman , the gentleman from california ( mr. lewis )  , the gentleman from wisconsin ( mr. obey )  , the gentleman from pennsylvania ( mr. murtha )  , and the gentleman from florida ( mr. young )  to work together with us on a bipartisan basis to see that we can add the needed money for the va health care system , to see that we do not shortchange these great americans who have risked their lives for our country .  mr. speaker , i rise in support of the bill , although i am disgusted with the anti-immigration provisions in it , particularly the things with the driver 's licenses .  mr. speaker , i rise in support of this supplemental appropriations bill , but not without very serious misgivings .  i will vote for this legislation because it contains support for our troops in the field and important tsunami relief .  with american soldiers in harm 's way , i am very reluctant to vote against funding of military operations .  and , having personally seen the devastation in the wake of the tsunami in indonesia , i feel that aid to the victims is critical .  nevertheless , i am disgusted by the process by which this legislation came to the floor and by the immigration-related provisions in the bill .  this is an appropriations bill .  it is not the place to write new immigration law or to include seriously flawed driver 's license provisions .  the republicans are clamoring in the senate about the lack of up or down votes on judges and , today , they denied the house not only an up or down vote on the so-called `` real id '' act , but even a real debate on this issue .  the immigration sections are seriously flawed .  they impose onerous restrictions on foreign nationals in the u.s. , not to mention upon american citizens , and slap a massive unfunded mandate upon the states .  shortly after this legislation takes effect , i can only imagine that , instead of more licensed drivers on the roads , there will be less .  instead of safer roads , we will have more reckless drivers operating completely outside of our laws .  america is a nation of immigrants and our strength is in our diversity .  we are founded upon the people who have come from all corners of the globe and are continually enriched by the unique strengths that they add to our national mosaic .  we must not undermine the careful balance our nation has struck .  i , therefore , strongly oppose these id and immigration-related sections and pledge to fight hard in the future to remove the offensive provisions from the law .  in the end , as a legislator , i must vote on the bill in front of me , and in this instance i must vote for the vital funding contained in this bill .  but , mr. speaker , please know that i will work hard in the day ahead to strike the dangerously flawed sections from the code .  mr. chairman , i rise today in opposition to h.r. 418 .  although i support the goals of this legislation , h.r. 418 unfortunately contains too many misguided provisions .  last year , i voted to pass the 9/11 commission 's bipartisan recommendations to reform identification standards and beef up security on our nation 's border .  this legislation would repeal that new law before it has a chance to work .  had the provisions of h.r. 418 been in place prior to september 11 , 2001 , they would not have stopped a single one of the 19 terrorists .  h.r. 418 would force virtually every adult in the united states to go to the dmv to get a new driver 's license , and with 14 , 000 local jurisdictions in this country currently issuing identification , it would be impossible to impose a single standard within in the three-year limit in the bill .  i will also vote to remove provisions mr. chairman , it has never been done before , waiving all labor laws , all contract laws , all small business laws , all laws relating to sacred places .  it is a broad sweep , just a total repeal of all of those laws or a waiver of all those laws .  mr. chairman , how much time do i have remaining ?  mr. chairman , how much time do we have remaining ?  mr. chairman , how much time do i have remaining ?  mr. chairman , i demand a recorded vote .  mr. speaker , i rise today in opposition to the emergency supplemental appropriations ( hr 1268 ) , on substance and process .  i am strongly supportive of our fighting men and women , and mourn the loss of nearly 1 , 600 americans who have died in iraq , four of whom resided in my congressional district .  on substance , this bill fails to provide an exit strategy for our troops in iraq .  since iraq held democratic elections in january , the us should have been implementing an aggressive exit strategy that includes a timetable for the training of iraqi security forces , so us troops can return home .  moreover , with nearly $ 10 billion already appropriated but not spent for critical reconstruction projects in iraq , like rebuilding electrical grids and establishing telecommunications networks , us policy objectives for iraqi independence are jeopardized .  on process , many of the items in this bill should be funded under the regular order in the annual appropriations cycle .  unfortunately , the republican leadership has used this bill as a vehicle for passage of immigration measures that are divisive and harmful for our country , and could n't be passed as stand-alone bills .  provisions commonly known as the `` real id act '' regarding national driver 's license standards , asylum law and completion of a southern border fence have been controversial from day one , but were added to appease a vocal minority of anti-immigrant advocates .  i and many others in congress would like to have a rational debate on immigration reform , but we are denied the opportunity when the leadership attaches non-germane immigration measures to a funding bill .  to better demonstrate how the process has been hijacked by a minority of the majority , many of the same provisions that constitute the real id provisions in the supplemental being considered today were stripped from the intelligence reform and terrorism prevention act ( pl 108-458 ) in conference because of their extreme nature .  one of the most egregious provisions in the real id section of the supplemental is the blanket authority given to the secretary of homeland security to expedite construction of the remaining three miles of the southern border fence in san diego .  all americans should be concerned that the dhs secretary has carte blanche authority to waive any and all laws in the name of border security .  this provision is a dangerous attack against the civil rights of all americans , when any law can be waived under the guise of border security .  blanket authority to complete the three mile border fence is especially `` in your face '' politics when , under current law , the dhs secretary already has a national security waiver for the national environmental policy act and the endangered species act .  we must work harder to strike a balance between our national security and environmental protection , not simply ignore environmental laws .  furthermore , the driver 's license provisions of this bill touted in the name of national security are equally concerning .  it is indeed ironic that these provisions would not have stopped the 9/11 hijackers from obtaining driver 's licenses .  the breach of our border security was a result of the hijackers having been issued legal visas to enter the us , which many of them used to apply for driver 's licenses and identification cards .  even if the real id provisions had been in place before the 9/11 attacks , the hijackers still would have been able to obtain a driver 's license or state-issued id .  again , a minority of the majority is playing on the fears of this nation to enact a flawed policy that does not actually address the problem it purports to fix .  for the record , i do not support illegal immigration , but i do support a regulated process for immigrants who enter the us legally , pay their taxes and play by the rules to earn us citizenship .  no one can deny that comprehensive immigration reform is a topic on the minds of our constituents -- but such a critical policy debate should be conducted on its own merits .  mr. chairman , i thank the gentleman from wisconsin ( mr. sensenbrenner )  and all of those on the republican side who are so concerned about my district .  i represent the california border between mexico and the united states .  this so-called fence that you want to put in my district is really a giant public works project that does enormous harm .  i wish you were equally concerned about the 50 million gallons of sewage that flows into my district that we should be treating .  i wish you were concerned about the legal border crossings , that take four or five hours some days .  i wish you would be concerned about my local health facilities who treat the undocumented and refund those dollars .  but , no , you want to put a public works project in that waives all existing environmental laws necessary to ensure the construction of roads , barriers , cut and fills , taking down mountains .  this would result in an enormous waste of millions of federal and state dollars that have already been contributed to restore and protect this area in san diego , its historical , its cultural , its environmental resources .  ironically , the united nations ramsar convention recently bestowed the prestigious label of `` wetlands of international importance '' on this 2 , 500-acre national wildlife refuge and state park that you are going to destroy .  now , we know we have to have border security .  we live right there .  you think we want to be overrun with terrorists ?  we know what it takes .  we know what a smart border is .  and what you are suggesting is not a smart border .  for a minimal security benefit and maximum dollars spent , you will do irreparable damage to areas along the western portion of the u.s.-mexico border .  this multitiered fence , road building , cut and fill , shaving down of mountains will destroy , as i said , an environmentally sensitive area , violate several sections of the coastal act and destroy acres of sensitive habitat and wetlands and coastline .  this sensitive habitat plays a vital role in the sustainability of the binational ecosystem .  vote down this bill .  madam chairman , i understand what the chairman is saying .  i have been around here long enough .  i do not have confidence in that regular order .  i know what is going to happen then .  then we will be accused of legislating on appropriations or some other rule will be brought up .  so i do not accept the ruling .  i intend to challenge the ruling , and i think we owe this to our veterans .  mr. speaker , let me reiterate what i said about nitpicking and arcane rules .  this whole bill is a violation of the rules of the house except for the fact that it says in the bill it does not violate the rules .  so telling us that we should have respect for the rules , my colleagues ought to show some respect for the good sense of the american people , for common sense .  this whole bill is a violation of the rules without a waiver .  is that not true , mr. chairman ?  would this bill be a violation of the rules if there was not a waiver involved in the rules ?  as i said , the rules are being used to damage common sense and to damage our nation 's security and damage our health care to our veterans .  i think it is a disgrace to use those rules for these purposes .  of course .  la jolla .  no , it is not .  mr. chairman , in last year 's appropriation bill , that hospital was awarded close to $ 100 million for seismic refitting , retrofitting for earthquake safety .  yes , sir .  mr. chairman , yes , in last year 's appropriation bill , la jolla medical center was one of a variety of hospitals , i think about two dozen .  many times .  yes , sir .  mr. chairman , whatever the gentleman from california ( chairman lewis ) suggests , i would consider .  mr. chairman , if the gentleman would continue to yield , look , everybody wants efficiencies in this system ; but i will say , for a paralyzed veteran with a spinal cord injury , there is no better place than the va to get care .  to keep that quality of care for those veterans requires investment in our system .  we are all looking for efficiencies but i will tell you there is no independent person , including the va .  mr. chairman , the gentleman asked me a question .  including the va that says that we have enough money .  the va says we do not have enough money ... ... .  mr. chairman , i wish to be heard on the point of order .  mr. speaker , does the gentleman really believe that 20 minutes of debate , 10 on each side , on these complicated issues , is free and flowing debate ?  we got out early yesterday ; we are here today .  why only 10 minutes of debate on each side on these complicated issues ?  mr. chairman , i rise in opposition to h.r. 418 .  the first thing is america will not sleep any more securely with the passage of this piece of legislation , as well intended as it may be , because i am not going to question the motives of my colleagues on the other side of the aisle .  but why do a useless thing ?  why would the state legislatures , why would the state governors , why would every latino advocacy group come against this ?  why would the national council of bishops here in the states come out against this ?  it is for various reasons .  but they all acknowledge that there is not a conspiracy going on here to thwart the efforts at security by these groups .  no one would accuse these individuals of that , because this does not do anything .  it only burdens the state and does not get us anywhere .  but more importantly , and i really believe this , this is an anti-immigrant bill in the guise of some sort of security consideration , which it does not further .  and so we ask , who are these immigrants ?  i have a simple answer for all of us .  look in the mirror .  that is who we are talking about .  we all got here one way or another , some earlier than others .  we are all immigrants .  what this bill is really about is not bad people coming into this country to do bad things to this country .  it is about preventing good people coming into this country to do good things .  mr. chairman , i rise today in strong opposition to h.r. 418 .  i am deeply concerned about several aspects of this proposed legislation .  this legislation , if passed , would be a terrible setback with regards to three critical areas : defending the people of the united states from terrorism , due process for immigrants , and environmental protection .  the bill would undo security provisions that were passed just last year under the intelligence reform act .  families of september 11th victims stated the impact of this legislation will not make us safer from terrorism .  instead , it would prevent people from fleeing persecution , from obtaining relief , making our highways more dangerous and undermine our security .  section 102 of this bill would eliminate homeland security and border patrol 's responsibility to inform and involve communities in proposed construction projects along the entire u.s. border and the requirement to consider less harmful alternatives to proposed actions .  this would allow homeland security to operate in secrecy in critically important areas such as cabeza prieta and buenos aires national wildlife refuge and organ pipe national monument that are all in my district .  many of our most precious wildlife depend upon protected public lands along u.s. borderlands for migration corridors between countries .  in addition , this section would waive laws requiring consultations with native nations regarding activities on tribal lands , grave sites or archaeological and sacred sites .  finally , in a rush to deport anyone , h.r. 418 would deny due process for immigrants and asylum seekers .  this is un-american .  it is against what we stand for , and it is against what we are asking the world to replicate in democracy across this earth .  mr. chairman , i rise today in strong opposition to h.r. 418 .  the proponents of this dangerous and divisive bill have mischaracterized and misrepresented it as a measure that focuses on national security .  this could not be further from the truth .  i would urge my colleagues today to listen beyond the harsh rhetoric and to closely examine this legislation .  because further study will reveal that h.r. 418 is really nothing more than a bill designed to bash immigrants and punish refugees .  h.r. 418 ignores our nation 's proud history of protecting those fleeing brutal human rights abuses , torture and persecution .  it would force our country to turn its back on women , children , and victims of religious persecution .  the bill would create insurmountable hurdles for legitimate asylum-seekers and slam the door shut on refugees who have fled brutal human rights abuses .  that is not america .  h.r. 418 also ignores the reality that there are an estimated 10 million or more undocumented immigrants living in our country .  this bill would do nothing to prevent undocumented migration to the united states .  if anything , this bill will only further compound the flaws in our nation 's immigrations laws .  and it would make the job of protecting our homeland even more challenging .  h.r. 418 will make the vital job of law enforcement to arrest criminals and root out potential terrorists almost impossible .  in short , immigration enforcement will continue to expend their valuable , but limited , resources and energy in pursuing hardworking busboys and nannies , instead of bad actors who mean us real harm .  immigration officers represent our frontline forces in protecting our homeland .  let 's not make their jobs even more demanding .  let 's give them the policies , the resources and the tools they need to succeed .  mr. chairman , imagine your neighbors , the families who live across the street , the men and women who join us at church -- all of the hard working people who share the roads with us .  now imagine these hundreds of thousands , perhaps millions of people , driving without a license , without car insurance or registration .  such a policy will wreak havoc on our streets and highways .  it also will do nothing to address our broken immigration system .  it will just force hard working people further into the shadows and create an increased demand for the black market of fake identity documents .  i agree that congress must examine how to improve enforcement of immigration law , but we first must create laws that are enforceable and in step with reality .  let me close by saying this .  i am not alone in my strong opposition to this misguided and mean-spirited legislation .  also opposing the bill are the national governor 's association , the national council of state legislatures , many other national , state and local organizations , security and immigration policy experts , immigration attorneys , more than 100 religious organizations , hispanic and asian organizations , the u.n .  commissioner for refugees , the afl-cio , the service employees international union and other labor unions .  the list goes on and on , and i consider myself very good company .  mr. chairman , i strongly urge my colleagues to oppose this bill .  the only thing `` real '' about the real id act is that it is real bad for america .  mr. speaker , i thank my colleague who ably serves on the permanent select committee on intelligence , as well as the committee on rules , for the time .  mr. speaker , as the lead conferee on the intelligence reform bill , i oppose the rule on h.r. 418 and the underlying bill because they will not make us safer .  what h.r. 418 will do is undermine several key provisions of the bipartisan intelligence reform and terrorism prevention act , which congress passed and the president signed into law just 2 months ago .  those who claim that the so-called real id act will enhance national security are flat wrong .  remember , all of the september 11 hijackers entered this country with legal immigration documents .  legislation prohibiting illegal immigrants from obtaining driver 's licenses would not have stopped a single 9/11 hijacker .  we dealt with this issue responsibly in the intelligence reform legislation .  the law establishes tough minimum federal standards for driver 's licenses so that all driver 's licenses have certain key security features .  the law also requires the transportation security administration to set newer standards within 6 months for identification documents which may be used to board commercial airplanes .  these provisions are much stronger than what is being proposed by h.r. 418 , yet h.r. 418 would repeal these critical new security upgrades .  mr. speaker , i wholeheartedly agree that if we want to cut down on illegal immigration , we must improve border security .  just 2 weeks ago , an astute crane operator at the port of los angeles discovered 32 chinese stowaways in a container that had just been unloaded from a panamanian freighter .  the state of california already prohibits illegal immigrants from getting a driver 's license , but that did not discourage these stowaways from trying to sneak into california and the united states .  the people at our ports and our borders are our first line of defense .  that is why the intelligence reform bill included authorization for 10 , 000 new border guards , 40 , 000 new detention beds to hold people awaiting deportation , and 4 , 000 new immigration inspectors .  yet the president 's 2006 budget does not include funding for any of these new security improvements .  if we are going to serious about border security , we need more resources and more people at the border .  i urge my colleagues to retain the real id provisions in the intelligence reform bill and reject this imposter .  we already have the tools for securing driver 's licenses , and our borders that will truly make our country safer .  mr. speaker , before yielding to my good friend from massachusetts , i yield myself such time as i may consume .  i would say to my colleague from texas ( mr. gohmert )  i have not had an opportunity to talk to him , and i simply want to point out to him that all of us that have feelings regarding states ' rights line up in many respects alike .  but the gentleman needs to know that the national governors association and the american association of motor vehicle administrators , the national conference of state legislators all oppose this legislation .  and the primary reason that they do would be , had i known the gentleman 20 years ago , or 10 years ago , he would have been arguing that the federal government is sending unfunded mandates to the states .  well , welcome to the federal government .  this is an unfunded mandate .  mr. speaker , i yield myself such time as i may consume .  mr. speaker , i ask the gentleman from georgia ( mr. gingrey )  whether he is on the committee on the judiciary .  mr. speaker , the gentleman from georgia and i are on the committee on rules , and we know this measure did not come up until 2 hours just before we went in there .  we also know there were no hearings .  we also know that the 9/11 commission went much further than what the gentleman presented here today .  mr. speaker , i gather those unfriendly nations were like saudi arabia where 15 of the 19 hijackers came from .  mr. speaker , reclaiming my time , before the chairman leaves , just one further word in that regard .  i take , from the many times when the chairman was in the minority , his statement to heart ; and that is that if a rule is not open , it is closed .  yes , the gentleman from california ( mr. dreier )  said that a lot .  he said that a lot .  mr. speaker , how much time remains ?  mr. speaker , i yield myself the balance of my time .  mr. speaker , the gentleman from texas ( mr. sessions )  has cited the 9/11 commission .  after 9/11 , shortly thereafter , i wrote to president bush and introduced legislation that would set the precursor to what ultimately became the department of homeland security of this house of representatives .  during that period of time , i did not have the courtesy of a response from the white house , and the white house opposed setting up inside the administration a cabinet-level homeland security official .  ultimately , they came around .  tim roemer , a former colleague of ours who did serve on the 9/11 commission , and myself and others filed the original legislation leading to the development of the 9/11 independent commission .  and my colleague has cited that commission frequently , but i defy him on the subject of border security , page 186 , to tell me anywhere where it says anything about driver 's licenses .  they talk about creating an interagency center to target illegal entry and human traffickers ; imposing tighter controls on student visas ; taking legal action to prevent terrorists from coming into the united states and to remove those already here ; further increasing the number of immigration agents to fbi joint terrorism task forces ; activating a special court to enable the use of classified evidence .  and i could go on and on and on in the clark working group and the 9/11 report , and not one word , not one word regarding any driver 's licenses .  people that are going to do harm in this nation are not going to do anything other than everything that is fraudulent .  but what we need to know is that there are a variety of people who are significantly opposed to this legislation .  the afl-cio , the american jewish committee , the asian american legal defense and education fund , catholic charities usa , the hebrew immigrant aid society , irish american unity conference , gun owners of america , the american conservative union , the republican liberty caucus , the national association of latino elected officials , the national conference of state legislatures , the council of la raza , the federation of filipino american association , the service employees union ; and there is a list that goes up to 121 organizations that have been shut out because there were no hearings and no opportunity for them to have been heard , other than through the limited debate .  we should stop this business of closing our opportunities and open up the rules .  i oppose this rule .  mr. speaker , i object to the vote on the ground that a quorum is not present and make the point of order that a quorum is not present .  mr. chairman , i rise to oppose the iraqi supplemental appropriations bill for fiscal year 2006 .  to call this legislation a travesty is to put it nicely .  it is nothing but $ 81 billion of chaos blanketed in lofty-sounding phrases like `` tsunami relief '' and `` supporting our troops. '' actually , this bill represents a mockery of the democratic process .  calling this bill an `` emergency supplemental '' implies that the bush administration and congress were somehow not aware of these costs .  that is ridiculous .  the only unforeseen cost contained in this $ 81 billion dollar boondoggle is the $ 656 million for tsunami relief .  both congress and the administration have known for months that $ 75 billion in the bill for the wars in iraq and afghanistan would be needed , but we did n't put it in the budget .  the real story is that the bush administration is attempting to hide from the american people the real costs of a mismanaged war .  the administration once claimed the war in iraq would cost $ 1.7 billion .  this supplemental alone is almost 50 times that amount .  is the administration out to lunch ?  tomorrow , the house is going to consider a budget resolution that , like the previous year , fails to include adequate funding for the war in iraq .  i 'm not a soothsayer , mr. speaker , but dare i warn , `` beware of the ides of march. '' if tomorrow 's republican budget is passed , we 're going to be here next march writing the bush administration another check to cover the costs of its campaign of nation building .  the bush administration is hiding behind the rhetoric of supporting our troops to escape accountability for the war in iraq , and the american people should be outraged .  we should be embarrassed that members in this body are so willing to write blank checks to a president who has yet to justify how the $ 175 billion in already appropriated money in iraq and afghanistan has been spent .  mr. chairman , i am even more appalled by the manner in which funding for clandestine operations is being carried out in this bill .  this bill allocates a massive amount of money for covert operations , yet the department of defense did not see fit to go through either of the two house authorizing committees of jurisdiction .  congress is creating a private bank account for secretary rumsfield without any oversight or permission from the united states congress .  is this what the american people want -- government by fiat ?  mr. chairman , our government has a process , and this process is vital to preserving the nature of our democracy .  i should n't have to explain that .  all of the bush administration 's rhetoric about global freedom apparently does not extend to the united states capitol building .  what is more important for the bush administration is that they get their money at all and any costs .  i guess that means they will sell this bill on the altruistic notions of patriotism and humanitarianism in a snide attempt to drum up support .  why is this bill being dubbed a tsunami relief effort when the entire supplemental is over 120 times the amount allocated for the tsunami ?  what about the six hundred million dollars to build the world 's biggest embassy in baghdad ?  what are they building this thing out of -- pure lead ?  that same amount of money could go towards vital security upgrades at other embassies and consulates around the world .  why do n't we just make things easier on everyone by throwing this bill out the window and opening up everyone 's bank accounts to the united states executive branch ?  now that 's privatization .  this is n't a question of patriotism , nor is it a question of our commitment to helping tsunami victims recover .  this is an issue with short and long-term constitutional and budgetary ramifications .  i realize that the bush administration feels it would be easier to simply govern without any input or oversight , but the first three articles of the constitution suggest otherwise .  i can not in good conscience support legislation that , for all we know , might pour billions in the pockets of halliburton while depriving our troops of necessary resources .  and i ca n't imagine why the united states congress , led by the appropriations committee , is handing a leash to the white house and waiting to be taken out for a walk .  mr. chairman , i am outraged by this crass attempt to shirk congressional responsibility , and i urge my colleagues to vote against this legislation .  mr. chairman , i rise in opposition to h.r. 418 , the real id act .  this legislation was crafted under the guise of protecting our borders and improving homeland security .  however , it would make it more difficult for victims of persecution to obtain asylum impose expensive mandates on the states , and authorize the secretary of homeland security to waive any and all laws to construct barriers at our international borders -- none of which will make this country any safer from terrorists .  this legislation would also effectively undo the important immigration and security reforms passed by the 108th congress , putting us at greater risk for future attacks .  the 9/11 commission 's immigration-related recommendations focused on targeting terrorist travel through reliable identification systems and effective , integrated information sharing .  instead , this legislation seeks to change immigration laws broadly and in ways unrelated to essential intelligence reform .  this legislation would expand the authority for expedited alien removal without further hearing or review , impose stringent restrictions on asylum seekers hoping to be given an interview with an asylum officer , and require unreasonable standards of proof for aliens seeking asylum .  none of the 9/11 hijackers sought or were granted asylum ; rather , they were granted legal visas to enter the united states using fraudulent documents overseas .  furthermore , current law explicitly bars terrorists or members of terrorist organizations from gaining asylum , and asylum-seekers already undergo thorough background checks through the fbi , cia , department of homeland security , and department of state databases .  the onerous restrictions offered by h.r. 418 would keep highly-vulnerable victims of heinous crimes from escaping their persecutors , and they do not address the real vulnerabilities in our immigration system .  a report released this week by the united states commission on international religious freedom underscores the dangerous impact these so-called reforms would have on our asylum process .  according to the commission , the current expedited removal process in the u.s. places victims of persecution at great risk for further trauma , while the severity of conditions and deprivation imposed on asylum seekers was `` shocking. '' rather than address this serious situation in the ways recommended by the commission , today this congress would force even more innocent asylum seekers into expedited removal or send them back to their persecutors without an opportunity to appeal their case to an immigration judge .  h.r. 418 would also impose statutory requirements for state-issued driver 's licenses and repeal the important identification security measures enacted by the bipartisan intelligence reform and terrorism prevention act .  rather than permit local , state , and federal officials to work together to create minimum security standards for driver 's licenses and identification cards as authorized by congress last year , h.r. 418 would mandate statutory standards for states and require them to share personal information on all licensed drivers in a massive national database .  h.r. 418 would dismantle the carefully crafted immigration and security reforms enacted by congress last year in the intelligence reform bill .  that law will toughen our border security by adding 10 , 000 new border patrol agents over the next 5 years , strengthening visa application requirements , and adding 4 , 000 new immigration and customs investigators .  it fortifies identification security while allowing the state officials charged with making those changes to be a part of the process .  mr. chairman , this law implemented key 9/11 commission recommendations without jeopardizing our legal immigration system or the ability of legitimate asylum seekers to escape persecution .  our country was founded on the principle of immigration , and we must not close our doors to those who lawfully seek to share in the freedom and democracy that americans have always held dear .  the congress must do everything in its power to protect our citizens and our borders .  h.r. 418 , however , does not achieve those important goals , and i urge my colleagues to oppose this legislation .  i am , mr. speaker , in its present form .  mr. speaker , i demand a recorded vote .  mr. speaker , i take this time for the purpose of inquiring of the majority leader the schedule for the week to come .  mr. speaker , reclaiming my time once again , i presume the gentleman is talking about merged at some later date .  obviously , the must-pass bill would not be available next week .  am i correct ?  so the gentleman is talking about merging it at some time in the future after passage ?  mr. leader , with respect to the energy bill , it is my understanding that there is some discussion that the energy bill may proceed not next week but the week following .  can you tell me whether that is a reasonable possibility , or probability ?  mr. leader , i might say that i think all of us understand the importance of energy legislation .  all of us understand the necessity to become energy independent .  i would suggest , in that framework , that i think personally that we can pass an energy bill .  obviously , there are some items that are in the energy bill or that are proposed for the energy bill that have significant opposition on one side of the aisle or the other .  i would hope , mr. leader , if we could , in working with the various committee chairs , and i suppose most primarily the gentleman from texas ( mr. barton )  and the gentleman from michigan ( mr. dingell )  in this respect , to come to as bipartisan an agreement on the substance of that bill so that we could see it not just pass through the house of representatives , which may be interesting in terms of the political claim that we passed it , but which does nothing for our energy independence , which is , i think , our objective .  so i would hope that we could deal with this in as bipartisan a fashion as possible so that when we send it to the other body that we may have more success there , more success out of conference , and send a bill to the president that will facilitate both energy independence and the effective and efficient discovery , development , and delivery at retail to the consumer of energy options .  i do not know whether you want to say anything .  mr. speaker , i thank the gentleman for referencing the committee on ways and means , but i certainly agree with him that having the gentleman from california ( mr. thomas )  and the gentleman from new york ( mr. rangel )  work closely together , and perhaps their respective chairs of the subcommittees that might deal with that work together , would be very , very useful to accomplishing an objective as opposed to simply passing a bill that then languishes in the congress and never gets to the president .  if , in fact , we consider that , and it sounds to me like we certainly do not have enough information to determine whether or not the week after next the energy bill might be on the floor , but if and when it comes to the floor , mr. leader , would you contemplate the possibility of having an open rule on that piece of legislation , given its importance and scope ?  mr. speaker , i would hope on that bill , because of its great importance to the security of the nation and to all of our consumers of energy , which is to say all of us , that we would have as broad a consideration of it as possible so that we could get everybody 's ideas put on the floor , voted up or down , and move the bill with as big a consensus as we can accomplish .  mr. speaker , i thank the majority leader .  mr. chairman , i thank the gentleman from wisconsin , and i thank our new chairman and congratulate him on his new position .  mr. chairman , i intend to vote for this supplemental appropriations bill , because i believe it is imperative to support our men and women in harm 's way in iraq and afghanistan and to continue our nation 's important work there .  our nation must finish what it has begun .  we can not disregard the bravery of millions of iraqi citizens who turned out to vote in january .  failure there , in my opinion , is not and should not be an option .  this legislation also is a recognition of the bravery and courage of our service men and women , more than 1 , 500 of whom have given the ultimate measure of sacrifice for freedom .  as tom friedman pointed out in the new york times in february : `` there is no single action we could undertake anywhere in the world to reduce the threat of terrorism that would have a bigger impact today than a decent outcome in iraq. '' i share that view .  mr. chairman , i believe it is more than mere coincidence that over the last several months the winds of democratic reform have begun to blow , not only in iraq and afghanistan but also in lebanon , egypt , saudi arabia , and the palestinian authority .  but we must harbor no illusions about the prospects for democratic reform in lands that have never known it .  however , i believe that it is in our nation 's interests to encourage and promote it .  mr. chairman , i also want to note that this legislation includes funding for food and humanitarian assistance in sudan , as well as tsunami relief .  however , despite these important funding requests , i would be remiss if i did not point out that this bill is far from perfect .  in many respects it is troubling .  this congress has a constitutional obligation , a duty , on behalf of the voters who elected us to serve here to hold the administration accountable for such expenditures .  we have asked for a report .  we have not gotten that report yet .  the gentleman from pennsylvania ( mr. murtha )  mentioned that in our markup .  the gentleman from california ( mr. lewis )  mentioned that in our markup .  the american public wants to support this effort but wants to do so in an effective , honest and efficient manner .  it is our responsibility to ensure that .  it is clear that the administration has included many measures in addition that are not emergencies .  we understand that practice .  it has happened before .  but i believe with all due respect that we have not met our oversight requirements .  this bill is approximately $ 82 billion .  in talking to staff , and maybe i stand to be corrected , but i believe that there are only two appropriations bills , defense and labor and health that are larger than this $ 82 billion bill .  now there may be another one .  i think va-hud used to be but we do not have va-hud .  what does that mean ?  that means we are passing the third largest appropriations bill that we will pass in the congress .  what does that mean ?  we are passing the third largest appropriations bill through this house without a single hearing , not one .  there was no hearing in subcommittee , any of the subcommittees .  there was no hearing in the full committee .  we had 2 1/2 hours of consideration in the full committee .  mr. chairman , as you know , we literally hold hundreds , perhaps thousands of hours of hearings on the individual bills .  as a result , individual members have the opportunity to ask questions , to make sure themselves that the money that is asked for is being spent appropriately .  as i said , i will support this bill .  i do not hold our new chairman responsible for this .  this is a supplemental .  it came down relatively late .  our men and women are at risk .  we need to get this money moving .  i understand that .  but i suggest to my colleagues that oversight is critical , and i would urge the gentleman from california ( mr. lewis )  and the ranking member , the gentleman from wisconsin ( mr. obey )  , that as we proceed with further consideration of these items that we exercise oversight carefully in the coming months to assure ourselves that this money is being spent as we intend it to be .  mr. speaker , i thank the gentleman for yielding me this time .  mr. speaker , i am of course going to vote for this emergency supplemental appropriation because i believe it is absolutely imperative to support our brave men and women in harm 's way in afghanistan and iraq .  i know that even today , 2 years after the onset of operation iraqi freedom , there continues to be strong disagreement across the nation on the decision to remove the brutal hussein regime as well as the planning and prosecution of our military effort in iraq .  however , on this point , i believe there is unanimity .  we , the elected representatives of the american people , have a legislative duty as well as a moral responsibility , to do everything in our power to ensure that our troops have everything they need to defeat the vicious insurgency in iraq , to assist the iraqi people in establishing democracy , and continuing our efforts in afghanistan .  in my view , however , we are not doing enough .  just last week , the new york times reported the experience of marine company e , an experience that , `` was punctuated not only by a lack of armor , but also by a shortage of men and planning that further hampered their efforts in the battle. '' i am pleased , mr. speaker , that this bill includes $ 1.4 billion more than the administration requested for bolstering force protection needs such as add-on armor and night vision goggles , and , in addition , for outfitting troops rotating into iraq and afghanistan .  over the last 4 years , this administration , however , has refused to ask the american people , particularly the wealthiest american people , to make even minimal sacrifices , while we ask our men and women in afghanistan and iraq for some to make the ultimate sacrifice .  the very least , in my opinion , that we can do is give them the resources they need to achieve victory and to return home safely .  i also support , mr. speaker , the important funding in this bill for tsunami relief , foreign assistance , and domestic homeland security as well as the $ 200 million in assistance for the palestinian authority for infrastructure and economic development projects .  those are all worthwhile , necessary , and important projects .  the political reforms taking place in the territories must be accompanied by an end to the poverty and lack of opportunity facing the palestinian people .  that is ultimately how we will defeat terrorism .  finally , however , let me raise , mr. speaker , one objection , among others , to the funding bill : the $ 592 million for a new embassy compound in baghdad .  that is not an emergency .  this funding , mr. speaker , is not only inappropriate in this emergency supplemental appropriation , but it also , in my opinion , is substantially excessive in its expenditures ; not to keep the people safe , we can do that , but to create an embassy in a relatively small country that , hopefully , in the years ahead , will be more peaceful than we have found it .  mr. speaker , i believe that we are at a critical juncture in iraq .  victory is imperative , although it is not certain .  i urge my colleagues to support this conference report .  mr. chairman , i ask unanimous consent to strike the requisite number of words .  mr. speaker , i raise a point of order .  mr. speaker , pursuant to section 426 of the congressional budget act of 1974 , i make a point of order against consideration of the rule , h. res. 71 .  line 10 on page 2 of h. res. 71 states , `` all points of order against consideration of the bill are waived. '' the rule makes in order h.r. 418 , the real id act of 2005 , which contains a large unfunded mandate on state governments in violation of section 425 of the budget act .  section 426 of the budget act specifically states that the rules committee may not waive section 425 , and therefore this rule violates section 426 .  mr. speaker , i yield myself such time as i may consume .  i thank my colleague from texas for his comments .  i think i can start out by saying that we come from a state that is very diligent and as well very astute on their members of congress supporting unfunded mandates to a burdened and already overworked state budget in a growing state that would have added responsibilities with this enormous burden that this real id bill would exercise against it .  let me just say to the gentleman from texas ( mr. sessions )  , because i know his commitment to fiscal responsibility , let me refer him back to the cbo report of 2004 .  we appreciate the cbo , but we know what happened ; and i think it is more important to know what the impact will be on the states on the basis of the national governors association and state legislatures .  in 2004 , on this very same bill , the cbo told what the numbers would be .  it was not under $ 62 million .  in fact , it was mr. speaker , i reserve the balance of my time .  mr. speaker , on that i demand the yeas and nays .  mr. chairman , i yield myself the balance of my time .  mr. chairman , we are on the floor today because the representation has been made to the american people and to our colleagues that this legislation is legislation that relates and responds to the crisis in the war on terror .  we all are united in that war , but this is an immigration bill , and i do believe we should do immigration in a bipartisan manner .  let me make it very clear , the 9/11 terrorists would not have been thwarted by this legislation .  in fact , all 19 of the 9/11 hijackers had documents to enter the country legally .  and under this particular legislation , the terrorists would not have been prevented from using these documents to obtain driver 's licenses .  i think the real crux is as was quoted in the words of governor jeb bush , `` what do you do with them ?  `` illegal aliens who are working in our hotels and factories , who are working every day in our states and our cities and our counties ?  the last thing , mr. chairman : do we remember bosnia and kosovo ?  these were people seeking asylum .  i think we have to judge ourselves by reason and reasonable policy .  i join my colleagues in working together to secure the homeland , but in this instance , this does not follow the 9/11 recommendations .  this commission did , in fact , say that they wanted secure documents , and identification should begin in the united states .  it did not document or indicate in which manner we should be able to do that .  i would have hoped that h.r. 620 , the security measures feasibility act , which would ask the hard questions of how and what is the best vehicle in order to be able to establish these secure documents , would have been the better approach .  now we undermine the states ' ability for safety and security in their own states , and we undermine the very principles of this nation , which are to open the doors for those fleeing persecution both in terms of religious and political persecution .  what about the cubans ?  what about the haitians , the liberians , the sudanese , the bosnians ?  what about those fleeing , as my colleague has indicated , our jewish individuals who were fleeing persecution ?  i simply say that we have a better way of doing this .  i wish we could do it together .  i hope my colleagues will oppose this bill so we might do this effort in a bipartisan manner .  mr. chairman , i rise in opposition to h.r. 418 , the real id act .  the real id act is an attempt to breathe life into immigration provisions that were stripped from the intelligence reform and terrorism prevention act .  these provisions were viewed as controversial then , and they are no less controversial now .  the real id act should have been subjected to hearings and markups before being brought to the floor .  the supporters of the h.r. 418 are afraid that terrorists are using our asylum laws as a means of entering and remaining in the united states .  this fear has to be put into perspective .  terrorists are statutorily barred from asylum eligibility , and it is not apparent why they would choose such a complicated , time consuming method for entering and remaining in the united states in any event .  the 9/11 hijackers entered and remained in the united states as nonimmigrant visitors .  visitors ' visas only require a two-minute interview with an american consulate officer .  the applicant just has to establish that he will return to his country at the end of the authorized period of stay .  this is much easier than the steps required for obtaining asylum , which , among other things , require the applicant to establish a well-founded fear of persecution on account of race , religion , nationality , membership in a particular social group , or political opinion .  the intelligence reform and terrorism prevention act established a study to find out the extent to which terrorists are attempting to use our asylum laws to enter and remain in the united states and what weaknesses they are exploiting .  we need to wait for that information before we consider any bills on revising our asylum laws .  changes should be designed to deal specifically with weaknesses that we know are being exploited .  the approach in the real id act is to raise the bar on the burden of proof , which would result in a denial of relief to bona fide asylum seekers without any assurance that the changes would discourage terrorists from seeking asylum .  for instance , in addition to showing that the alleged persecution would be `` on account of '' one of the enumerated grounds , the applicant would have to establish that the persecution was or will be `` a central reason for persecuting the applicant. '' in effect , the asylum applicant would have to establish what was in the mind of the persecutor .  it is not apparent how this would discourage terrorists from fabricating asylum claims .  the only certainty is that it would make it more difficult for bona fide asylum seekers to meet their burden of proof .  the unfairness of this approach is illustrated by a comment that the honorable sandra day o'connor made recently about the asylum laws of our country .  she said : the united states offers protection in the form of asylum to individuals fleeing persecution in other nations .  in most cases , however , asylum seekers find themselves alone , destitute and facing deportation .  asylum law is governed by a labyrinth of statutes , regulations , and case law , but , unlike criminal defendants , only those asylum seekers who can afford to hire an attorney or who are fortunate enough to secure pro bono counsel are represented .  the real id act would codify the standards that adjudicators use in making credibility findings in asylum proceedings .  the codification would encourage adverse credibility findings against asylum applicants who can not produce corroborating evidence of their account , or whose demeanor is inconsistent with an immigration judge 's preconceived expectations .  this can be very unfair .  people fleeing persecution often lack the opportunity and the ability to secure the legal evidence needed to corroborate their claims , and demeanor is a function in some cases of cultural background rather than credibility .  for instance , it is considered rude in some cultures to stare into another person 's eyes during a conversation , but the failure to look someone in the eyes indicates deception in this country .  the real id act also would expand the categories of people who can be excluded or deported as a terrorist .  the broad net this would create would ensnare innocent people who have made donations or been involved in some other way with organizations they did not know were terrorist organizations .  the defense to removal on that basis would be to demonstrate by clear and convincing evidence that you did not know , and should not reasonably have known , that the organization was a terrorist organization .  this can be an impossible burden to meet .  for instance , how would you prove by clear and convincing evidence that you did not notice a person who entered this room 5 minutes ago ?  the real id act also includes sections on security measures for drivers ' licenses and identification cards .  we have already enacted legislation to improve security measures for drivers ' licenses and identification cards .  the intelligence reform and terrorism prevention act we just enacted requires the secretary of transportation , in consultation with the secretary of homeland security , to promulgate regulations establishing minimum standards for driver 's licenses or personal identification cards issued by a state for use by federal agencies for identification purposes .  before being published as proposed regulations , the standards would be subjected to a negotiated rule making committee that would include the affected stakeholders such as state elected officials and state motor vehicle departments .  the recommendations of this committee are required to include an assessment of the benefits and the costs of the measures in the proposed regulations .  in contrast , the real id act would impose specific requirements on the states now , without giving the states and the other stakeholders an opportunity to provide input on what these requirements should be , and without an assessment of the benefits and costs of the measures .  if the security measures were to prove to be impossible or too costly to implement , it would require an act of congress to change them .  before we can address the merits of the security measures that would be required by the real id act , we need answers to the following questions .  ( 1 ) are the states capable of establishing and implementing the security measures mr. sensenbrenner is proposing ?  for instance , his bill calls for two categories of drivers ' licenses , one for citizens and permanent residents and another for aliens who have nonimmigrant status .  the licenses for nonimmigrants would be tied to periods of lawful status and extensions of the status .  can the state motor vehicle departments handle this increased work load ?  will the states be able to provide the training needed to evaluate the many immigration documents that reflect lawful nonimmigrant status ?  ( 2 ) how much would it cost to establish , implement , and maintain these security measures ?  we do not have unlimited the real id act also would restrict the privilege of obtaining a driver 's license to aliens who have lawful status .  my security measures feasibility act would establish a study of the consequences that would result from forcing millions of undocumented aliens to drive without drivers ' licenses .  sheriff timothy bukowski of kankakee , illinois , has made an important observation on this matter .  according to sheriff bukowski , the issuance of drivers ' licenses is a safety issue , not an immigration issue .  i agree with sheriff bukowski , a driver 's license is more than just a privilege to the driver , it also is a device that the states use to make our highways safer .  austin assistant chief of police rudy landerso explains it this way .  `` [ w ] e strongly believe it would be in the public interest to make available to these communities the ability to obtain a driver 's license .  in allowing this community the opportunity to obtain driver 's licenses , they will have to study our laws and pass a driver 's test that will make them not only informed drivers but safe drivers. '' i would just add that it also requires them to have insurance .  the real id act contains a provision that would provide the secretary of homeland security with authority to waive all laws he deems necessary for the expeditious construction of the barriers authorized to be constructed by section 102 of the illegal immigration reform and immigration responsibility act of 1996 , iirira .  to my knowledge , a waiver this broad is unprecedented .  it would waive all laws , including laws protecting civil rights ; laws protecting the health and safety of workers ; laws , such as the davis-bacon act , which are intended to ensure that construction workers on federally-funded projects are paid the prevailing wage ; environmental laws ; and laws respecting sacred burial grounds .  it so broad that it would not just apply to i am concerned also by the piecemeal approach that the real id act is taking to immigration reform .  we need comprehensive immigration reform , not fixes for a few specific problems .  this view is shared by our colleagues on the senate side .  senator john mccain has expressed the need to have comprehensive immigration reform .  i have heard that he will be working on comprehensive immigration legislation with senator edward kennedy .  we can do the same thing in the house of representatives .  i invite my colleagues who are supporting the real id act to work with me on comprehensive immigration reform .  in the meantime , however , passage of this piece-meal , ill-advised bill would be a step backwards .  i urge you to vote against it .  mr. chairman , do i have time for a unanimous consent request ?  mr. chairman , i yield myself such time as i may consume .  let me make a point that i think should be very clear .  this legislation will not just impact those who are undocumented .  this legislation will impact those immigrants who have legal status .  in the process of reviewing or revising that status , they too become part of the large webbed fishnet of hauling people in by people who are inexperienced in this area .  so i would offer to my colleagues that this is random , it is reckless , and it needs a bipartisan look and oversight committee assessment .  mr. chairman , i reserve the balance of my time .  mr. chairman , reclaiming my time , let me pointedly ask the gentleman , you speak specifically to a judicial conviction going through , as opposed to being tapped and saying , you are carrying a false driver 's license .  the gentleman is talking about actually trial and conviction ?  mr. chairman , reclaiming my time and i would simply say the comment on this is that i appreciate the distinguished gentleman from delaware being open with his response .  one of the concerns i have is that we do not know whether dhs is doing this or what tsa is doing and hearings would have been appropriate .  this is a valid issue , let us not doubt that ; and , of course , i would hope that we would want a database to be secured .  i do have to raise red flags on making sure it is not random , making sure there is a conviction , and in knowing what happens with dhs .  i would have wanted to have hearings , but i thank the gentleman for his answers .  mr. chairman , i yield myself such time as i may consume .  mr. chairman , let me just close by raising these points .  it looks like we are moving quite quickly .  it is the question of having the answers .  this has good intentions , but the answers of what dhs is doing , the training of tsa , what kind of standards are used in different airports .  some tsa person might say it is a mistake , go back .  others might make it in essence a federal crime and that person is prosecuted .  so some you get in the database , others you do not .  it is just a question of concern as to how this will work .  again , it is a good idea .  mr. chairman , i recognize the importance of having standardized drivers ' licenses and identification cards .  this should be done on a bipartisan basis , however .  the real id act was not bipartisan , and it was moved too quickly through the legislative process .  it was passed without any committee hearings or markups .  mr. speaker , i rise sadly to oppose the emergency supplemental because of the horrific and ill-advised immigration provisions and the lack of oversight that has been given to the provisions in this section .  i hope we will have an opportunity to address this in a comprehensive manner .  mr. speaker , i rise today very conflicted over a piece of vital legislation for which this entire body should really be in solidarity .  the conference report on h.r. 1268 provides for emergency fy2005 funds for military operations in iraq and afghanistan , tsunami relief efforts , foreign assistance programs and domestic homeland security priorities .  however , this legislation also includes an insidious section with provisions of h.r. 418 , the real id act , which has nothing to do with what should be the real intent of this emergency supplemental .  instead of being united on issues of national security and international relations , we are put in a divisive situation with the provisions of the real id act .  the issues of importance addressed by this emergency supplemental do not give rise to a need to include provisions from h.r. 418 , the real id act -- legislation for which congress has not held a legislative hearing , markup , nor full debate in the house .  just last year , our colleagues on the other side of the aisle attempted to force these provisions in the context of the 9/11 intelligence reform and terrorism prevention act , h.r. 10 .  the sponsor of the real id act 's driver 's license provisions would have gone far beyond the scope of the 9/11 commission recommendations .  the 9/11 commission did not suggest that the standards should be federally mandated without state participation , that a database should be created to share personal identification information , that undocumented immigrants should be prevented from getting licenses or that non-citizens should get an identifiably different driver 's license .  finally , none of the real id act sponsor 's provisions have been reviewed by the congress or the commission .  there have been no hearings or debates on these significant changes to existing law .  the immigration provisions that have been forced into this supplemental include numerous provisions restricting the grant of asylum `` protection , imposing onerous new driver 's license requirements on the states , making it easier to deport legal immigrants , waiving all federal laws concerning the construction of fences and barriers anywhere within the united states , and denying immigrants long-standing habeas corpus rights .  the usa patriot act , for which we in the subcommittee on crime , terrorism , and homeland security of the judiciary are only now holding hearings in piecemeal form , already barred terrorists from receiving asylum protection in the united states .  none of the people associated with recent attacks , or plans for terrorist attacks in the u.s. , were here under grants of asylum .  instead , these changes will make it harder for people legitimately fleeing persecution to prove their asylum claims and gain protection here .  bona fide refugees who can not meet the higher standards will be returned to countries where they were persecuted , possibly to face terror , torture and death .  the forced provisions will set a dangerous legal precedent by requiring the government to waive all federal , state and local laws to build barriers and fences to deter illegal entry into the united states .  this waiver would require violating laws that protect sacred native american burial sites , important environmental regions , and the wages of laborers .  yet this policy is unnecessary .  in the 9-11 act , we passed language to develop and implement a comprehensive plan for the systematic surveillance of the southwest border by remotely piloted aircraft and other electronic means .  we can preserve our legal rights and regimes and still secure our nation .  the great majority of this emergency supplemental , a sum of $ 75.9 billion goes towards u.s. military operations in iraq and afghanistan .  in this conference report 's military spending total of $ 75.9 billion includes $ 37.1 billion for military operations and maintenance spending , $ 17.4 billion for personnel , and $ 17.4 billion for new weapons procurement .  i am very pleased to say that this conference report increases the military death gratuity to $ 100 , 000 , from $ 12 , 420 , and increases subsidized life insurance benefits to $ 400 , 000 , from $ 250 , 000 , for families of soldiers who died or were killed while on active duty beginning from oct .  7 , 2001 .  i can not describe how fundamental it is that we take care of our armed forces and their loved ones .  this conference report addresses some of the concerns that democrats have had about the fact that the families of soldiers who were killed while on active duty were not being given the necessary funds to provide for themselves .  in addition , this conference report provides $ 308 million more than requested for add-on vehicle armor kits ; large increases for new trucks ; added funds for night-vision equipment ; and $ 60 million in unrequested funds for radio jammers to disrupt attempts by iraqi insurgents as i stated there are many provisions of this emergency supplemental in which this body can be united in agreement .  one such issue is the tsunami relief provided in this emergency supplemental .  the conference report before us today appropriates $ 907 million in direct assistance for tsunami disaster relief for countries affected by the dec .  26 , 2004 , earthquake and tsunami .  in addition , this measure also provides $ 226 million to reimburse the u.s. military for expenses incurred in providing emergency relief to the tsunami victims , and $ 25 million to build and deploy 35 new tsunami-detection buoys in the pacific , atlantic , the caribbean and the gulf of mexico to provide warning to communities of approaching tsunamis .  i had the opportunity to see the damage caused by the tsunami when i visited sri lanka with my colleagues led by mr. crowley shortly after the tsunami disaster .  i had the opportunity to visit with usaid personnel who were there trying to aid the sri lankan people in rebuilding their nation .  i have to say the attitude of our american personel and the smiles they brought to the face of the sri lankan people would make every member of this congress very proud .  we talk about public diplomacy with the international world and i firmly believe that the funds appropriated here along with the work of our personnel on the ground help make a great case for the goodness of our nation .  i am also similarly pleased that about $ 400 million in this conference report will go towards humanitarian assistance in darfur , sudan .  i recently had the opportunity to visit refugee camps in neighboring chad where thousands of sudanese in darfur have fled to escape the conflict .  needless to say , i was able to confirm from eyewitness accounts that the conflict in darfur is indeed even more shocking and deeply disturbing in its viciousness than has been reported to us .  we as a nation must stand against such brutality and the funds in this emergency supplemental will help to ease the suffering of those involved in this conflict .  in addition , this conference report includes $ 920 million for all peacekeeping programs , many of which are in sudan .  however , while i have always been a strong again , i am in general support of the goals proposed by h.r. 1268 , but i am troubled by the implications of the supplemental appropriations measure that this body is poised to pass that relate to immigration policy .  the underlying legislation proposes to fund important needs that pertain to operation iraqi freedom ; operation enduring freedom , in afghanistan ; army and marine corps restructuring ; recapitalization and replacement of equipment ; and replenishment of cash balances in certain working capital funds .  in truth , this emergency supplemental funds many needed priorities , but it is the one issue of the real id act , which is not a priority , that poisons this legislation .  mr. chairman , i rise in reluctant support for the $ 81.1 billion emergency supplemental funding bill we are considering today .  the only reason i am voting for the bill before us today is because it provides much needed equipment for our forces in theater , increases death gratuity to $ 100 , 000 for families of soldiers who have died or were killed on active duty .  my support for this measure is tepid at best .  what troubles me the most about this bill are two key concerns : one , there are no mechanisms for tracking if the money is properly spent .  there is simply no mechanism for improving accountability of how taxpayers ' dollars are spent .  the defense department wants to take the money and provide little detail to congress on how these dollars are being used or abused .  the american people have a right to know how these dollars are spent .  and , two , by increasing investments in our war and defense efforts , we further constrain budgetary resources for investments in education , highways , community development , first responders , health care , public health and more .  what is at stake here is the very welfare of our states and communities , who find themselves financially strapped because of the economic policies of this administration .  our domestic economy can not continue to pursue this trend .  despite my many misgivings over this spending bill , i will vote for its passage .  we in congress must call on the defense department to provide better accountability for the spending decisions it makes .  mr. speaker , when h.r. 1268 was first considered on the floor in march , i reluctantly supported its passage .  now that the conference report has been returned to the house for this chamber 's approval , i still find myself torn because i do not see how additional funding for the iraq war effort will ultimately produce a positive outcome for the united states or for the people in iraq .  i want a successful exit strategy -- not a permanent occupation in iraq .  despite my misgivings for the direction of our iraq policy , or lack thereof , i do not believe our troops , who are fighting so bravely , should be penalized for the mistakes in judgment of our civilian military leadership at the white house and the pentagon .  as we speak , our ground forces scrounge for scrap metal to make the unarmored vehicles more safe against insurgent attack .  the funds provided in this bill will enable our soldiers and marines on the ground to uparmor their vehicles .  there should be more outrage from the american public that they were deployed without adequate equipment from the beginning .  but they are there .  it is vital that our troops receive the equipment they need to defend themselves against attack .  i have been critical of our war planning from the outset .  i voted against the authority that allowed the president to take action in iraq .  i continue to be frustrated that our war plan still contains no game plan on when we can begin to bring our troops home .  i am pleased that the bill does contain provisions that require the administration to develop a set of performance indicators and measures for determining the stability and security in iraq and report its findings to congress .  this requirement falls well short of the exit strategy we need to determine how long our commitment in iraq will last .  the bill also funds tsunami relief , which is well overdue .  the agreement appropriates $ 656 million in direct assistance to tsunami disaster relief for countries affected by last december 's tragedy .  the total includes $ 5 million to support environmental recovery activities ; $ 10 million to create new economic opportunities for women ; and $ 12.5 million to support initiatives that focus on the immediate and long-term needs of children .  the bill provides $ 400 million for humanitarian assistance in the darfur region of sudan and elsewhere in africa , including funds for the temporary resettlement of refugees .  it also funds $ 240 million for international humanitarian food assistance through the food for peace program , much of which will go to the darfur region .  this assistance will provide some relief to those who are being victimized by the ethnic cleansing that is being waged against the black muslim population by the arab muslim-dominated sudanese government .  in a period when the president and this congress proposes reductions in programs that support the development of local communities and neighborhoods , the bill provides $ 592 million for a gold-plated embassy compound in iraq .  i find it very difficult to defend such spending when the budget priorities of this administration propose disinvesting in our cities , towns and our american workforce .  money for this project goes beyond providing office and working space for u.s. foreign service personnel .  what we are proposing to build is not an embassy , but a compound , with stores and other amenities which will further distance our american embassy personnel from the iraqi civilian and political population .  we are constructing a fortress , not an embassy .  i want a successful exit strategy -- not a permanent occupation in iraq .  another key element of this agreement with which i take issue is the mandate imposed on states that requires certain identification standards on driver 's licenses for federal identification purposes .  the measure mandates that states meet certain requirements for determining the validity of persons applying for drivers ' licenses .  although the bill provides authority for states to receive federal grants to comply , it is insufficient and amounts to an unfunded federal mandate .  the money contained in this bill will go a long way to saving lives , saving the lives of our land forces in iraq and afghanistan and reconstructing the lives of those who experienced the devastation of last year 's tsunami .  after weighing the alternatives , i reluctantly support the passage of this bill .  i am not happy with the choices we are making today .  i feel backed into a corner without much wiggle room , but the lives of our troops matter to me and they deserve the protection this bill is designed to deliver to them .  mr. chairman , i rise today in support of the emergency supplemental appropriations act for defense , the global war on terror , and tsunami relief , 2005 .  i have had the opportunity to visit iraq twice over the last 2 years and visit with our military women and men and survey the operations of the u.s. reconstruction mission in iraq .  never have i been more proud to be an american than when i visited our troops and observed them in the line of duty .  my trips reconfirmed that we must give our troops the tools and resources they need to carry out their mission safely and effectively so they can return home soon .  for this reason i am supporting the administration 's supplemental request for $ 81 billion .  specifically , i would like to highlight the good work of the 128th infantry division out of western wisconsin , and the 1158th transportation company out of tomah , black river falls , and beliot .  the 128th is on their first tour of duty in iraq and is performing well , despite several equipment shortages and setbacks the unit has dealt with .  the 1158th is on their second tour of duty , and is also performing above and beyond their mission .  i am extraordinarily proud of their service to our country .  i am especially proud of young men like andrew carter .  today i had the opportunity to visit andrew , a member of the 128th , at walter reed hospital .  he was recently injured in iraq riding in a humvee that was hit by an rpg .  there is a good chance he would have been killed if it had n't been for vehicle armor that was added to the humvee .  this supplemental appropriates more funding to continue to armor humvees , so that we can continue to save lives .  one of the first things andrew said to me was that he wants to heal quickly so he can get back to iraq and serve with his unit .  his resolve is a good reminder of the dedication of our men and women in uniform and why we need to renew our commitment to soldiers like andrew .  while i do not endorse all of the supplemental 's provisions , in the absence of a funding alternative , i support the need to provide for our troops .  but we do need to start budgeting and paying for their obligations , such as the need for a new embassy in iraq , instead of passing so-called `` emergency '' supplementals and leaving a legacy of debt for our children to inherit .  as our military effort continues , i and other members of congress will work to ensure that our service men and women have all the resources necessary to fulfill their mission .  again , my thoughts and prayers are with those serving our country , as well as their families .  america is firmly behind our troops and we 're all hoping to see them home safe , secure , and soon .  may god continue to bless these united states of america .  mr. chairman , i rise in support of h.r. 1268 .  i would like to thank the committee leadership for their efforts to provide our men and women in uniform with the equipment that they need to succeed .  as a member of the house armed services committee , i have worked with my colleagues to provide much-needed force protection equipment to our troops .  h.r. 1268 includes $ 75 million for body armor , $ 51 million for up-armored humvees , and $ 611 million for add-on armor kits for vehicles .  having visited our wounded soldiers at walter reed army medical center , i know that we can prevent further injuries by funding this important equipment , and i appreciate the committee 's efforts in this area .  furthermore , the bill raises the military death gratuity from $ 12 , 000 to $ 100 , 000 and increases subsidized life insurance benefits from $ 250 , 000 to $ 400 , 000 for families of service members who died or were killed on active duty , retroactive to october 7 , 2001 .  as a cosponsor of legislation to increase the military death gratuity , i believe we must appropriately honor those that have made the ultimate sacrifice , and these benefit increases are one small gesture that congress can make to demonstrate our respect .  this legislation also demonstrates our nation 's commitment to aiding those in dire need throughout the world .  h.r. 1268 includes $ 656 million for disaster relief to the victims of the tsunami as well as essential peacekeeping and humanitarian assistance to darfur .  however , i was deeply disappointed that the house leadership used a procedural move to attach the language of the real id act , which i opposed when the house considered it in february .  the real id act would significantly alter our nation 's asylum and immigration laws in the name of homeland security , though its provisions went far beyond the recommendations of the 9/11 commission .  the senate has already registered some opposition to the real id provisions , and i fear that their inclusion in the house 's supplemental bill will slow down the process and prevent us from sending assistance to those who need it most .  our primary responsibility should be to assist our men and women in uniform and to fulfill our promises to the nations that were devastated in the december tsunami .  i urge my colleagues to move swiftly to pass this measure and to drop any extraneous provisions that would hinder this important funding .  mr. chairman , i move to strike the last word .  mr. chairman , as the daughter of a veteran , 25 years in the army , i want to express my profound respect and appreciation for our brave men and women serving on the ground in iraq .  they have a very difficult job , and all of us pray for their safe return , and many of us want them home very quickly .  the administration 's request for an additional $ 82 billion brings the total war funding to nearly $ 300 billion .  we must continue to ask just where has this money gone ?  for example , the coalition provisional authority was unable to account for about $ 9 billion , and that is just what we know .  where did that money go ?  we deserve to know .  the american people deserve to know what our tax dollars have paid for .  did that $ 9 billion go , for example , to protect our troops ?  we have no idea .  another important question is , are we safer today than when this war began ?  the answer is plainly no .  if one believed the administration , the goal of the war was to prevent weapons of mass destruction from falling into the hands of terrorists and that iraq posed an immediate threat to the united states .  now it appears that this unnecessary war may have actually increased that threat .  instead of stopping terrorism , this administration 's policies have allowed it to expand .  according to the national intelligence council , this administration 's war has turned iraq into a breeding ground for islamic terrorists .  before the war on iraq , there was no connection , no connection , between saddam hussein and al qaeda .  now there is .  congress requires the administration to give a thorough accounting of how our tax dollars have been spent pursuing these policies in iraq and what the administration 's expectations are for future expenses .  and despite this law , the administration has flatly refused to make this accounting to us , to the american people , or to determine what the future costs will be .  we know , however , what has been overlooked .  there is a documented failure to provide our troops with both body armor and armored vehicles .  there are documented cases of waste and fraud perpetrated by contractors like halliburton .  mr. chairman , it is the height of hypocrisy for members of congress to say that they support our troops and then fail to insist on the accountability of how these funds are being spent and whether or not the previous resources allocated were spent to protect our troops .  if one asks me , the bush administration just wants another blank check .  no oversight , no accountability , and they have failed to provide a concrete plan for how our troops will stabilize the situation in iraq and to bring our troops home .  mr. chairman , this administration has much to account for .  there have been too many blank checks and not enough accountability .  i will vote against the supplemental and urge my colleagues to do the same .  mr. chairman , yesterday , the u.s. commission on international religious freedom , a federally mandated bipartisan commission , released a comprehensive report documenting the mistreatment of asylees in america .  for those seeking asylum , we strip-search them and then we thrown them in jail with criminals .  as we debate this bill , thousands of people seeking safety from persecution are in jail with criminals in the united states .  they are here fleeing from torture , from rape ; some are here seeking freedom because they have been denied the opportunity to practice their religion , say christianity , in a place where religion is not permitted .  but when they get here , we lock them up .  and today we are considering a bill that will make it harder for those fleeing oppression , trying to find safe haven in our nation .  this bill does nothing to make us safer .  in fact , we have heard references to those who came prior to the first world trade center bombing .  we made changes in the law subsequent to that .  that fix has already been done .  we do not need to do what is before us today .  so it is surprising we are not addressing today the shocking findings of the commission report .  mr. chairman , i want to say something else .  this bill , despite the protestations , is in fact creating a de facto national id card .  it establishes one type of id that most americans will carry .  all our information will be held in databases linked together and readymade for use by the federal government .  how much will they really know about each and every one of you ?  this is not just about immigrants , this is about all americans ; and i think we need a national conversation about whether we want that form of big brother .  mr. chairman , i move to strike the last word .  mr. speaker , i rise in support of the conference report .  and i would like to take a few minutes to express my support with some provisions included in the foreign operations chapter of this supplemental bill .  first and foremost , i am pleased that we have finally appropriated funding to address the earthquake and tsunami that devastated asia .  the images of destruction , parents separated from their children , whole villages flattened and emptied , livelihoods washed away , touched the american people deeply and brought out the most generous and humanitarian impulses in us all .  i am disappointed , however , that it has taken congress so long to respond officially on behalf of the united states , but i am happy that we finally have a robust package of aid to offer affected nations .  i want to thank chairman kolbe , senators mcconnell and leahy for responding to my request to ensure that the needs of women and children around the world are addressed in this supplemental .  of the $ 656 million included in the bill for tsunami-related assistance , over 200 million will be dedicated to directly meet the needs of women and children , and much of the remainder of those funds will be of indirect benefit through the restoration of infrastructure needed , such as new schools and roads .  the bill also makes a strong statement about u.s. support for a peaceful solution to the israeli-palestinian conflict .  it provides 200 million to help the palestinian people improve their economic situation .  i also want to thank chairman kolbe and my colleagues in the senate for agreeing to provide most of the $ 100 million added by the house for emergency needs in africa outside of sudan .  unfortunately , the horrible tragedy in sudan has meant the diversion of funds needed to address ongoing problems in the democratic republic of the congo , liberia , ethiopia , and uganda .  this 100 million , along with additional funds for public law 480 food aid , will go a long way toward easing the pain and hunger expressed by many women and children throughout africa .  while i have deep concerns about other provisions included in other sections of this supplemental , i am pleased with the shape of the foreign operations section .  i believe it goes a long way toward fulfilling our many commitments around the world .  mr. chairman , i thank the gentlewoman for yielding me this time , and i rise in opposition to the so-called real id act of 2005 .  mr. chairman , while i have enormous respect for the gentleman from virginia , the chairman of the full committee , i must take exception to the assertions that have been made by a lot of speakers here today that somehow this bill will prevent or would have prevented the 9/11 attacks from occurring .  i just want to point out that regardless of the number of licenses that the terrorists held on september 11 , they were all obtained because those individuals were in the country legally on student visas .  and student visa holders in the future , even after this act is passed , will still have the opportunity to get licenses .  so that argument is indeed bogus .  but i want to talk about the most egregious parts of this bill .  under this bill , it would allow the secretary of the department of homeland security to nullify all of our laws while fulfilling his responsibilities under the scope of this act .  and putting aside the schizophrenic immigration policy we have heard from the republican party , you have a president that wants to have open borders and basically amnesty to allow open borders for low-wage workers to come in , and then you have a republican house that is saying that all those coming in must not have licenses .  they must be pedestrians .  mr. chairman , under this act , what this means for american citizens is , our civil rights laws will be set aside under this bill .  our nondiscrimination laws will be set aside under this bill .  our health and safety laws will be set aside under this bill .  our environmental laws will not apply under this bill .  and child labor laws will not apply under this bill .  most troubling of all , the public bidding laws of this country will not apply under this bill for this project .  right now on the committee that i serve with the esteemed chairman , we are investing no-bid contracts that were given to halliburton .  we have millions of dollars in overcharges to the united states taxpayer , we have bribery charges , and we are doing all kinds of investigation on that no-bid .  there is no reason that the civil rights laws and the public bidding laws should be set aside .  if that were not the most extreme example , they have removed any opportunity for judicial review under this act .  there will be no review of the secretary 's action in setting aside all of those laws , no recourse .  it is ironic , mr. chairman , that while we have our soldiers in uniform protecting democracy , we are giving it away under this bill .  yes .  mr. chairman , $ 3 million .  mr. chairman , more than a 150 , 000 women are currently pregnant in the tsunami-affected areas , including 50 , 000 anticipated to give birth during the next 3 months .  unfpa is determined to enhance the likelihood of deliveries occurring in safe and clean conditions by providing emergency care , basic supplies , and helping to rebuild health care facilities .  they are uniquely qualified to provide these services .  in fact , they are and have been on the ground since that tragic day , helping save the lives of women , children , and families .  with these funds , unfpa can provide safe delivery kits , such as the one i have here .  it includes basic supplies such as soap , plastic sheeting , razor blades , string and gloves , laundry detergent , dental supplies .  these are supplies that are needed to prevent and treat cases of violence against women and youth .  they also offer psychological support and counseling and promote access of unaccompanied women to vital services .  each of these areas is a serious problem and will go a long way towards helping save the lives of thousands of women and their children .  disasters put pregnant women at greater-than-normal risk because of the sudden loss of medical support .  mr. speaker , passage of this legislation demonstrates our commitment to our brave men and women in uniform and acknowledges that they need resources in order to accomplish their mission and return home safely .  it also offers support for the families when a loved one pays the ultimate sacrifice in the cause of fighting for freedom .  all along , i 've been concerned about the lack of progress reports coming from the pentagon .  this bill finally requires the pentagon to use real performance indicators to report to congress with our progress in terms of security , economic , and iraqi security force training goals .  the money that will go directly to help our troops is of course the most important part of this bill .  it increases the military death gratuity to $ 100 , 000 and increases life insurance benefits to $ 400 , 000 for families of soldiers killed while on active duty in iraq and afghanistan .  we 've all been hearing reports about the lack of adequate personal and vehicle armor .  congress has funded these critical protections in the past and we 're doing so once again in this bill .  i hope that this money will quickly be turned around to provide the needed add-on vehicle armor kits , new trucks , more night-vision equipment , and essential radio jammers to defeat the roadside bombs that are injuring and killing our troops almost every day .  our troops should not be compromised .  resolving the current instability in the region is in the long-term best interests of all americans -- failure in iraq would lead to irreparable consequences .  thousands of american troops have been in iraq for more than 2 years .  we have to take care of them and ensure that they can come back home as soon as possible .  mr. chairman , we know the right questions to ask : about iraq , the budget , waste , fraud and abuse by contractors including halliburton .  after seeing scenes from an iraqi prison , we know what we do n't know .  what are we going to do about all this ?  we know the right questions to ask , but we also know these questions will not be answered -- unless we reach back into recent history and reinstitute an independent , bi-partisan internal watchdog .  in the 1940s , the truman committee saved the government and the american people $ 15 billion dollars .  they asked the right questions and were empowered to get the answers .  the american people got what they paid for and someone made sure of it .  there was truth in government .  there was trust in government .  we do n't have that kind of faith , confidence , or oversight anymore .  instead of scrutiny , there is subterfuge .  already , america has spent $ 200 billion for the wars in iraq and afghanistan .  yet two years after the start of the war , many troops and their transports still do not have adequate protection .  this week , the administration will use the supplemental process to obtain new billions for iraq .  the fact is , the supplemental process carries less scrutiny than the normal budget process .  we know the right questions to ask , but getting the answers is a different story .  billions of dollars have been awarded in non-competitive contracts .  recently , the military acknowledged that 8 billion in cold , hard cash is missing in iraq .  it 's happened before in iraq , and unless something changes , there is no reason to believe it wo n't happen again .  halliburton has already been found to have overcharged the pentagon by billions of dollars for providing meals to soldiers and importing fuel .  they 're still getting paid and no one really knows if we are getting what the american people are paying for .  on a rare occasion , the defense secretary admits there is an issue ; quoting secretary rumsfeld : `` according to some estimates , we ( dod ) can not track $ 2.3 trillion in transactions. '' the pentagon 's own auditors admit that the military can not account for as much as 1/4 of what it spends .  defense makes up half of all the discretionary spending in the budget .  standard issue republican rhetoric decries waste , fraud and abuse .  well , it 's time to turn the rhetoric into a plan of action .  the truman committee eliminated corruption , profiteering and mismanagement .  it uncovered defective systems , improved efficiencies in existing programs , and freed up billions of dollars for more crucial procurement .  mr. chairman , i rise in opposition to the emergency supplemental wartime appropriations act .  it is unconscionable that the administration comes to congress for another emergency supplemental when it has failed to account for previous emergency funding , and has failed to include the cost of the war in the fy '06 budget .  how can this administration offer a budget that does not include funding for america 's military operations overseas when we have more than 150 , 000 soldiers in iraq and afghanistan for an indefinite period of time ?  why does the administration continue to resort to supplemental funding to pay for this war instead of including the cost in the budget where it will sufficiently reflect the impact of operations iraqi freedom and enduring freedom on our deficit ?  mr. chairman , i did not support the iraq supplemental request last year because i had serious concerns about no bid contracts in the bill .  unfortunately i was right to be concerned ; just today it has been reported that pentagon auditors have found excess billing for postwar fuel imports to iraq by the halliburton company totaling more than $ 108 million .  to add insult to injury congress has not received any of the nine auditing reports from the pentagon , but instead must resort to receiving this information through unofficial channels .  despite repeated requests , the administration has kept nine audits confidential from both republican and democratic members of congress .  accountability is a bipartisan issue .  this $ 81 billion emergency supplemental funding request for the department of defense 's iraq and afghanistan operations comes on the heels of $ 25 billion of emergency spending already appropriated for this year .  enacting this request would mean that this congress will have provided this administration with almost $ 300 billion for military and reconstruction efforts in afghanistan and iraq .  it is clear that this body is willing to live up to its end of the bargain and provide funding for our troops , but the administration is determined to continue to avoid serious questions and concerns about its spending .  let me state outright that i opposed going to war in iraq , but that is not my reason for opposing this supplemental request .  i oppose simply because we can not allow continued deception by the administration on every aspect of our engagement with iraq .  we were deceived with exaggeration of hussein 's weapons capabilities , and now we are being deceived about the duration of the engagement and its exact cost -- on the american purse and the loss of our men and women in uniform .  we have exacerbated the situation in the middle east and put our country in a more vulnerable position because of this war , and now we are asked to surrender the responsibilities of this body to hold the administration accountable for its actions .  mr. chairman as a member of congress i must provide answers to my constituents about the money that congress spends .  accountability is not a partisan issue , we must all demand answers .  our constitution was carefully crafted so as to allow a balance of power in our government .  congress is obligated to use appropriations and the oversight that accompanies it as a means of holding the executive branch accountable for its spending of american funds .  any attempt to usurp that balance of power is a betrayal of the moral fiber of our government and must be taken as an attack on the integrity of this body .  the department of defense by law must submit reports to congress with a detailed explanation of the spending and future costs of the iraq war .  these reports were due october of last year and at the beginning of this year .  despite this legal obligation clearly delineated in last year 's defense appropriations act , we have to date received no report accounting for the spending and detailing cost estimates of previous supplemental funding .  our government should not fail to meet its legal responsibility without consequence .  how can we justify more emergency appropriations without adequate assurance that what has already been appropriated has been shrewdly spent ?  sadly , we have no report directly from dod but the inspector general reported that almost $ 9 billion in reconstruction funding has been mishandled and poorly accounted for .  in fact , the inspector general suggests that thousands of `` ghost employees '' were on an unidentified ministry payroll .  in addition , dod has stated in the past that 220 , 000 iraq security forces had been trained and equipped , that number was then scaled down to 136 , 000 .  moreover , the pentagon has recently put into question if these troops are truly prepared for service .  mr. chairman , opposition to this bill is not a vote against supporting our troops .  this body has proven over and over again through appropriations that it supports our troops .  congress has appropriated $ 20 billion for iraq reconstruction despite the administration 's claims that iraq reconstruction would cost between $ 1 and $ 2 billion and could be financed by iraqi oil revenues .  with enactment of this bill congress will have appropriated $ 300 billion for the efforts in iraq without proper accounting of the spending of these funds .  the administration claimed that we would be received as great liberators and that just a few short months after the invasion we could start withdrawing troops , but instead we have no exit strategy and over 1 , 500 troops have died and thousands seriously injured .  i could go on and on about the disastrous miscalculations and misleading estimates .  this bill is critically lacking in accountability .  no more blank checks for this administration .  mr. chairman , as one of the conferees on the intelligence reform law enacted last december , i want to remind members that it contained 43 sections and 100 pages of immigration-related provisions .  these tough , but smart new measures enacted just 2 months ago include , among others , adding thousands of additional border patrol agents , immigration and customs investigators and detention beds , criminalizing the smuggling of immigrants and establishing tough minimum standards for driver 's licenses , just as the 9/11 commission recommended .  now we need to implement and fully fund these tough measures to ensure our nation 's safety .  unfortunately , the president 's budget chose not to fund the 2 , 000 new border patrol agents or 8 , 000 additional detention beds that were called for in the intelligence reform bill .  so much for being tough .  h.r. 418 would further undermine these tough measures by repealing several of these provisions .  the bill would repeal a gao study to ascertain any vulnerability in the current asylum system and replace it with new burdens that would be impossible for many true asylum seekers to meet .  proponents of this legislation have misled us by suggesting that different terrorists have received asylum .  no terrorist has ever been granted asylum in the united states .  we further ensured that terrorists would not be granted asylum with the administrative changes of 1995 and the expedited removal system done legislatively in 1996 .  now we detain anyone seeking asylum that arrives at our border without documents .  but asylum encourages citizens of other countries to fight for positive change in their own country , without risking u.s. military lives .  if their life is endangered , they should have a chance to seek asylum in the united states .  unfortunately , the legislation before us would make that nearly impossible .  finally , if a person is a terrorist , i do not want to deport them so they have another chance at doing harm to the united states .  i want to detain them , prosecute them , imprison them to the fullest extent of the law .  the bill would repeal the tough minimum standards for driver 's licenses called for by the 9/11 commission and included in the intelligence reform law with provisions that federalize all driver 's licenses , take away states ' rights , place huge unfunded mandates on the states , without advancing the paramount objective of making state-issued identity documents more secure and verifiable .  that is why the national conference of state legislatures strongly opposes this legislation .  mr. chairman , if you truly want to implement tough yet smart measures to ensure our nation 's security , vote down this legislation , and let us fully fund and implement the tough and smart provisions that were included in the intelligence reform bill .  mr. chairman , i move to strike the last word .  mr. chairman , i rise in opposition to this bill .  one of the solemn honors that i have had as a member of congress is to visit our soldiers who have been wounded in iraq .  i have visited with them at walter reed army hospital here in washington and at the veterans hospital at palo alto , california .  it is rewarding and shocking to meet our troops under these circumstances .  theirs are the stories of courage under fire .  their wounds are almost unimaginable to those of us who are not sharing their world of combat .  the treatment that they receive from the moment they are attended to on the battlefield , taken to battlefield hospitals , transported to germany and stabilized and brought home to the united states for specialized care and rehabilitation is a tribute to our magnificent military and veterans medical system .  each time that i have left these brave men and women , i have had to confront my role as a policy-maker and whether or not i have done all i can to serve and protect them in their mission .  i voted not to go to war in iraq because i believed at the time of the vote , and i believe now , that the case had not been made ; that the intelligence we had did not support what the bush administration was telling the american people was the threat that we faced from iraq .  tragically , since that time , it has become clear that there was not only no imminent threat to the united states from iraq , but there was no plan for what our troops would encounter after the war was supposedly won .  the duty this government owed to its soldiers when they were sent into combat was not met : not in the justification , not in the preparation and not in the planning .  our obligation to them was simply not met .  all americans now understand that the reasons that the bush administration gave to go to war in iraq were not true .  the evidence did not exist .  in spite of the advice of many in our military , in our state department and among our allies , the administration remained determined to wage a war in iraq .  in short , the administration failed to be truthful with the american people and with the congress .  as a result , since the first day of that war , americans have been paying 90 percent of the costs and suffering 95 percent of the casualties beyond those of the iraqi people .  today , we are being asked to vote for another $ 81 billion for the war in iraq .  this is the third supplemental appropriations bill for iraq since the war started , totaling nearly $ 200 billion ; and without a change in course , the nonpartisan congressional budget office estimates the war in iraq and afghanistan will cost an additional $ 458 billion over the next 10 years .  astoundingly , this additional request has no change in strategy forthcoming from the president to address the absence of control and continued violence against our troops and the iraqi people .  the president and his advisers cling to the idea that america is just one major battle away from victory , or that with just one more capture of a significant insurgent leader we will break the back of the opposition to our occupation and to the formation of a democratic government in iraq .  those who continue to attack our troops and the iraq people have been described in many different ways as the war has dragged on .  first , we were told the resistance was under the command and control of saddam hussein .  then they were described as disaffected baathists , and later they were just a bunch of `` bitter enders. '' we were told that a heavy battle attack of fallujah would break the back of the resistance .  what happened instead was that we made 300 , 000 people homeless by flattening their city with little or no impact on the resistance .  in fact , the violence rapidly spread to other major cities .  while it has become clearer to those with both diplomatic and military experience that we must now develop a new strategy for success , it is resisted by the very same top command in the white house and the pentagon who have made so many errors and so many miscalculations that have continued to place so many of our military in circumstances in which they are not able to prevail .  the opposition to change comes from the very same people that failed to carry out the due diligence to properly plan and prepare for the war and its aftermath .  their failure to anticipate , plan , and train for the mission that our soldiers were faced with was a failure of the first duty of care owed by the commander in chief and the defense secretary to our troops , the duty to provide for the protection of our forces .  this was not done , and the results have been thousands of wounded and killed , at the same time that the pentagon resists change and fails to transform its approach to fighting terrorism in iraq and elsewhere .  so , today , nearly 3 years after 9/11 , we still have no comprehensive policy to support the war on terror declared by the president .  as a result , both our nation and our troops continue to face an unacceptable level of threat and danger .  today , as we consider this request for supplemental appropriations , the dishonesty by the bush administration continues .  this request itself is dishonest .  it is labeled as an emergency , as if somehow the administration did not know what money it was going to need for the war in this year 's budget or in next year 's budget .  yet we know the war has been costing between 5 and $ 7 billion a month and is likely to continue to do so under the current policy .  the administration will not take responsibility for the cost of the war or how to pay for it .  at the end of the day , the president and his advisers simply do not have the courage of their convictions .  if they did , they would be honest with the american people about the real cost of war and the lack of progress being made on the ground , about the plan for drawing down our troops and about the real reason american soldiers were sent to iraq in the first place .  i can not in good conscience vote to approve a supplemental appropriations bill that offers no strategy for success , that has no plan to draw down our troops in a responsible manner , and that fails to makes a compelling case to the american people about why the haunting sacrifices of lives , limbs and money have been necessary .  i know that some of my colleagues , in very good conscience and with honorable intentions , believe that supporting this bill is the equivalent of supporting our troops .  i would very respectfully have to disagree with that view today .  rather , in my view , to vote for this supplemental is to expose our troops to the same leadership in the white house and the pentagon that refuses to tell the truth , that refuses to take responsibility for its actions , and that refuses to hold a single person accountable for the failed decisions that have been made for this war .  and it exposes them to the same leadership that refuses to provide the kind of change that will start to remove the central organizing principal of the guerrilla war in iraq -- the presence of nearly 150 , 000 american troops viewed as occupiers by those who oppose us .  to say that we must remain in the current configuration in iraq because the situation will get worse is to ignore the facts on the ground , facts that have been acknowledged by many of our field commanders , by members of congress who have visited iraq , and by members of the news media covering the war .  this is a very difficult vote , i understand that .  but let us be clear that this is not a vote about whether i or any other member of congress supports american troops .  of course we do .  and this is not a vote about the heroism shown by the thousands of iraqis who risked their own lives by voting in the national elections in january .  they have my admiration and support .  we support the troops by arguing against the kind of failed preparation and planning that sent national guard and reserve troops into battle without flak jackets and reinforced hum-vees .  we support our troops by arguing in favor of a strategy for success .  we support our troops by arguing against the president 's budget that dishonors our veterans by undermining the system of care and benefits they need and deserve .  but we do not honor our troops simply by approving yet another allegedly emergency bill that offers no promise of success in an area of the world where success is not just critical , it is literally a matter of life and death .  we can provide for the needs of our troops in a bill that also provides for success in this war .  tragically , that bill is not before us today .  mr. speaker , it has been 2 years since president bush stood aboard the uss lincoln aircraft carrier and declared , `` mission accomplished '' in iraq .  and in those two years it has become increasingly clear that the war in iraq is far from over , and that the american people are paying the price .  let 's just take a look at the facts : there are currently 150 , 000 american troops now serving in iraq , including 8 , 000 reserve and national guard troops .  tragically , 1 , 582 american service members have been killed in the iraq war .  at least 12 , 243 u.s. troops have been wounded in action , many with grievous injuries that will require a lifetime of medical assistance and other types of support .  more than one in five iraqi war veterans have some type of mental disorder caused by their wartime service .  in addition to the cost of life and quality of life for the brave american men and women who are fighting in iraq , the dollar cost of the war is also taking its toll on the american people .  to date , $ 217 billion in american taxpayer dollars have gone to fund the war in iraq .  we were told our allies would share the cost of the war ; we were told iraqi oil would pay for the cost of the war .  now it is clear , there was no plan : the american taxpayer is paying for the cost of this war to the tune of $ 5 billion a month .  in fact , today 's $ 82 billion supplemental is the fifth such supplemental congress has passed at the request of the bush administration to fund the war on terror .  that 's billions of dollars not spent on pressing problems right here at home .  problems , such as : the price of gas at the pump .  gas prices remain at record levels at $ 2.24 per gallon nationwide , with some states topping $ 2.60 .  that means gas prices have risen 33 cents in just the last two months and are 42 cents a gallon higher than a year ago .  the energy department predicts that gas prices will climb to a record $ 2.35 by memorial day -- averaging $ 2.28 this summer .  the high cost of health insurance .  health care costs for families have skyrocketed almost 50 percent over the past five years .  a lagging economy .  the economy grew at just 3.1 percent in the first quarter -- the slowest pace in 2 years and down from a 3.8-percent pace logged in the final quarter of 2004 .  declining wages and benefits .  workers ' salaries and benefits have suffered the largest 3-year decline since 1948 ( as a portion of our economy ) even as corporate profits continue to rise .  fewer jobs .  446 , 000 private-sector jobs and 2.8 million manufacturing jobs have been lost .  record budget deficits .  this year 's deficit is on track to reach a record $ 427 billion .  veteran 's benefits .  over the next 5 years , the budget for veterans programs , primarily health care , is $ 14.2 billion below the amount needed to maintain services at current levels .  and , record trade deficits .  the u.s. trade deficit surged to an all-time high of $ 61.04 billion in february .  two years after president bush declared mission accomplished in iraq , there is still no end in sight .  instead of just signing another multi-billion dollar check to the administration , is n't it time to develop a real plan to stabilize iraq so we can bring american troops home and concentrate on our problems here at home ?  mr. speaker , on february 17 , 2004 , the national debt of the united states exceeded $ 7 trillion for the first time in our country 's history .  one year later , our national debt is $ 7.7 trillion .  in the past year , our country has added $ 700 billion to our national debt .  the conference report for the fy06 budget resolution that is before us today would increase the statutory debt limit by $ 781 billion to a record $ 9 trillion .  mr. speaker , enough is enough .  the out-of-control rise in our national debt over the last year and the rise in our debt envisioned in this conference report are further signs of the terrible fiscal position in which we now find ourselves .  in 2001 , we had ten-year projected surpluses of $ 5.6 trillion [ 2002-2011 ] .  now , over that same time period , we have likely ten-year deficits of $ 3.9 trillion .  that 's a $ 9.5 trillion reversal in our ten-year fiscal outlook .  whether intentional or otherwise , our country 's current fiscal policies are depriving the federal government of future revenue at a time when we ought to be preparing for an unprecedented demographic shift that will strain social security and medicare .  our current fiscal irresponsibility will eventually land squarely on the shoulders of our children and grandchildren , who will be forced to pay back the debt we are accumulating today .  the `` debt tax '' that we are imposing on our children and grandchildren can not be repealed .  it can only be reduced if we take responsible steps now to improve our situation .  both parties need to work together in a bipartisan fashion to bring our budget back into balance so we can avoid the higher long-term interest rates and weakened dollar that are the inevitable consequences of rising deficits and a high national debt .  we are witnessing on a daily basis the reaction of the global financial markets to our fiscal irresponsibility , and as we can see in this conference report , congress has not yet gotten the message that deficits and debt matter .  for starters , congress needs to reinstate paygo rules for the entire budget , including spending and revenue measures .  budget enforcement rules that apply to only certain parts of the budget will not have a significant impact on our rising deficits , as federal reserve chairman alan greenspan mentioned in his recent testimony before the budget committee .  this fiscal year alone , interest on the national debt is expected to rise to $ 178 billion , and the administration projects that that figure will increase to $ 211 billion during the next fiscal year .  to put that figure in perspective , projected interest on our national debt next year will be $ 75 billion more than projected spending on education , public health , health research , and veterans ' benefits combined [ $ 138 billion ] .  further , the budget conference report before us today , which was filed only three hours before the house began to consider it , would require the house to cut medicaid funding by as much as $ 15 billion over the next five years .  just two days ago the house voted , by a vote of 348-72 , to reject harmful cuts to the medicaid program , and this conference report blatantly ignores the will of the house .  in addition to assuming an ever-larger share of our annual budgets , the interest on our debt , and the debt itself , are increasing our reliance on foreign borrowers , which will weaken our position in the world and increase the risk that another nation will be able to assert greater leverage over america .  over the last year , our country has borrowed nearly $ 400 billion [ $ 389 billion ] from foreign countries , and almost half [ 44 % ] of our publicly-held debt is held by foreign creditors [ $ 1.96 trillion , out of $ 4.4 trillion of publicly held debt ] .  finally , our deficits and debt threaten the social security and medicare programs that have raised so many of our seniors out of poverty and helped sustain the strongest middle class in history .  with a projected 75 year unfunded liability of $ 3.7 trillion , both parties in congress need to work together to address social security 's solvency problem , and this conference report does nothing to protect social security .  in fact , it continues the practice of raiding the social security trust funds to pay for other expenses of the federal government .  it is time for congress to stop playing games with our national debt , with social security , and with our kids and grandkids ' futures and take a commonsense , bipartisan approach to solve our budget problems .  mr. chairman , the problem with this bill is that it is an immigration bill posing as an identification bill .  instead of listening to what the states told us needed to be done to make driver 's licenses more secure , what we have done is to basically make state motor vehicle employees unwitting immigration agents .  it does little to improve homeland security , and it is certain to prove overwhelming and ineffective .  now , i support what the gentleman from virginia ( chairman tom davis ) is trying to do to improve the integrity of driver 's licenses , but i find it curious that the leadership of the house has chosen to largely ignore the multiple references in the 9/11 commission report to the value of on-card biometric technology in improving the integrity of identification cards .  the problem is that these digital images are not sufficient .  matching the image with the face is more prone to error than the technology that would use biometric data .  two fingerprints transformed into numeric algorithm , that works .  what we have here does not work .  i think we are going to find the states letting us know that .  unfortunately , it will be too late .  we will miss an opportunity .  mr. chairman , reclaiming my time , it would remain in the bill that the administration would have to detail and share with us what is their strategy for success .  mr. speaker , i rise in support of this conference committee report .  but , mr. speaker , the american people whose sons and daughters are fighting this war and the senior military officers who are directing this war deserve to know what the white house will consider to be success in iraq .  now , this conference committee report includes language that would require the administration to fully evaluate the situation in iraq and provide the congress with measurable , achievable criteria , including the following : an assessment of the number of troops it will take to secure the peace and how those troops would be rotated ; key measures of political stability , such as ratification of a national constitution and permanent national elections now scheduled for next year ; the estimated strength of the iraqi insurgency and the extent to which it is composed of noniraqi fighters ; the operational readiness of iraqi military forces , including the type , number , size , and organizational structure of iraqi battalions that are capable of conducting counterinsurgency operations independently ; the fact is that our long-term presence in iraq will only give our enemies in the region a greater ability to recruit terrorists and build public support for violence .  that is the opposite of our objective there .  i do think it is past time to lay out for the american people what is our strategy for success .  this language that is included in the report will require the secretary to report no later than 60 days after the enactment of the supplemental and every 90 days thereafter .  that is progress .  we support our troops .  we have to complete this mission , but we also need to work together .  the fact is , the american people whose sons and daughters are fighting this war do not have the ability to require this of the administration , nor do the senior military officers .  it is our responsibility , and i am glad that this congress is committed to performing that responsibility .  on balance , it is a good bill , and i support it .  mr. chairman , this is truly a bipartisan bill , the defense part of it in particular .  chairman young and i have worked very closely together .  he visited some places ; i visited three bases .  we found shortages .  we found problems .  we tried to rectify those problems .  we tried to put in what the people in the field asked us and what needed to be done .  we realized that insurance payments needed to be changed .  we realized that the death benefits needed to be changed .  we also realized there is a jurisdictional problem , but we felt like it could not wait .  i have had 12 people killed in my district , and there is no question in my mind for the need for that to be changed .  but the thing that is the most important in my estimation is accountability .  chairman young and i sat in his office not long ago and talked about the bill , and he got his copy of the constitution out and it talked about accountability .  it talked about congressional accountability .  and i thought how unaccountable the defense department seems to be at this stage .  they do not seem to realize we are not here to hurt them , we are here to help them .  we believe that if you do not have the confidence of the people , if you do not have confidence in the way the money is being spent , you are going to lose confidence in the overall project , the overall philosophy , the overall direction we are trying to go .  we put language in the bill last year , and we said , you have got to give us a report .  that report is 3 or 4 months late .  no reason for that to happen .  they had plenty of notice .  and it should have been on our desk before this bill was up so that if there was something that needed to be rectified , we could rectify it .  there are two reports .  i do not know if the second one is late yet or not .  of course that takes us to the next step and that is the thing with the intelligence which we have read in the newspaper and which i can neither confirm nor not confirm has happened .  but i worry that things are getting out of control that we do not know about .  we sit and try to help them every way we can .  many of the things we put in this bill they did not ask for because they did not know about it .  we found out about it , and we made sure that was part of the presentation , part of this bill .  i have to say that when i meet with the secretary of defense , when we listen to his presentation , we always say to him , chairman of the full committee , chairman lewis , chairman of the defense subcommittee the last time , chairman young , we always say , look , we 're here to help you .  give us these reports .  tell us how you 're spending this money .  when i saw there was a $ 9 billion fund that was not accounted for according to the auditors , and , of course , this is not appropriated money , this is money provided for the oil , but still we should know where it goes because it can replace some of the money that we are appropriating for these resources .  i would just conclude by saying this is our responsibility under the constitution , and i am hopeful that the defense department gets the message .  i support the bill and will do everything i can to get it passed .  of course , any problems we have in conference i am sure we will work them out .  mr. chairman , i think the gentleman has good criteria for success , and the chairman and i have talked about this , and i think he has got a good idea here .  mr. speaker , in regards to what the gentleman from wisconsin ( mr. obey )  just said , i am surprised at the new chairman .  he is so lenient about getting time out of him .  usually our bill moves much faster than this .  i thought he learned .  let me say the defense part of this and maybe the rest of it is probably the most bipartisan bill one could ever find .  the gentleman from florida ( chairman young ) , the gentleman from california ( chairman lewis ) , and i have been traveling to these various bases .  we found shortages every place we went , all kinds of problems that they brought to our attention that needed to be rectified .  we found problems so severe that many of the units that were on their way to iraq were c-4 .  the gentleman from california ( mr. cunningham )  , my good friend , the hero from vietnam , knows what i am talking about when i say c-4 .  i am talking about they are not ready to go to combat because the equipment is so bad .  as a matter of fact , the equipment was so bad at one base , and i think it was fort stewart where the troops did not have radios to train with , did not have small arms ammunition , did not have mortar ammunition to train with , and that means that when they get there , they are not at the cutting edge of where they should be .  now they get equipment when they get there , and that overcomes the c-4 .  so the gentleman from florida ( chairman young ) and i , what we did was put $ 2.3 billion into the budget .  we first checked , the staff checked , with the army to make sure that that is where it ought to be put .  the army came back and supported us .  usually , they beat around the bush .  the gentleman from california ( chairman lewis ) knows what i mean .  we talk to them , and because of other people over there , they do not want to admit that they need the money .  this time they were very emphatic that they needed every cent and they needed it as soon as they could get it .  so we added money for the types of things that they need .  having said that , what i have said to the services because we are having such a problem , we see the recruiting problem , we are looking into that right now .  the subcommittee i serve on , we realize and we have said for a long time , they are going to have a recruiting problem as this war gets unpopular ; and we were trying to figure out how do we overcome that .  most times i disagree with those bonuses because i feel so strongly that people ought to join the armed forces for the good of the country , but we have to give bonuses to send them over there .  we put money in for those kinds of things .  we increased the amount of money somebody gets when they are killed in action .  we expanded it so that when they are killed in action , they are taken care of retroactively as well as prospectively .  we take care of somebody who is wounded .  we added money to it .  some veterans group called me and said they were not happy with the way we added that money .  they felt like there ought to be more study , and i can not disagree with that .  but when the four of us sat down , the gentleman from florida ( chairman young ) and senator inouye and senator stevens , we came to the conclusion that we just did not think we could wait .  so we put money in to take care of people who were injured so severely as well as the ones that were killed .  and i got so many letters from the people at home , and i have had 12 killed in my district , how pleased they were about what we are doing because it helped them get through a very difficult time .  what we have tried to do over the years is make sure that the people that were in the armed forces had what they needed , that the people in iraq have what they need .  our subcommittee brought to the attention of the country that they were without a lot of equipment in iraq .  we are working right now .  new trucks , we are trying to figure out how to put new trucks in that are encapsulated because we have taken care of the humvees , but we need to take care of the trucks now .  so we got some commercial trucks which were recommended which were $ 100 , 000 less , but it was so late , we could not get it in the bill .  we are going to ask for reprogramming for that amount of money .  so this bill is taking care of equipment shortages , not all of them , but it is taking care of as many as we could possibly squeeze in .  it is taking care of reset .  we forced the military to ask for reset .  the minute that this war is over and the money starts to dry up , reset will be the first thing they do not do ; so we have to do it now .  and i have said to many of the industrial leaders in this country , the minute the war is over , there will not be any supplementals , there will be a lot less money to be spent , and we have got to spend this money now in the supplementals to make sure that that gets done .  armor modularity , there is some argument about that ; but we think it ought to be done , and we have pushed this .  many of the programs that the army has today have come about because of the defense subcommittee , chaired by the gentleman from california ( mr. lewis )  and chaired by the gentleman from florida ( mr. young )  .  many of the things that have happened have happened because we see it out in the field .  we go out in the field , talk to the people , make sure that we are doing the right thing , and then we try to send defense in the right direction .  so i urge the members to vote for this .  the troops need it , and it helps dramatically for the amount of money that is needed by the armed forces .  mr. speaker , i thank the gentleman for yielding me time .  mr. speaker , the distinguished chairman talks about section 102 of the bill , which gives the secretary of homeland security the ability to waive all laws that might get in the way of building the fence ; and he talks about environmental laws , and he talks about endangered species .  well , that is all well and good , but the radicalism and the irresponsibility of the majority is shown by how this is drafted .  this does not refer to environmental laws .  this does not refer to endangered species .  this says the secretary of homeland security shall have the authority to waive all laws in his sole discretion that he determines necessary .  the secretary of homeland security can tell the contractors , if anybody gets in your way , shoot them .  shoot them .  the laws against men are waived .  laws against anything are waived .  it makes him a total dictator .  then to make sure that the secretary can be a total dictator in contravention of the constitution , in contravention of all our laws , it then says , no court shall have jurisdiction to hear any clause or claim arising from any decision the secretary takes or to order any compensatory declarative injunctive , equitable or any other relief for damages alleged to have been suffered .  so someone can be shot because the secretary says shoot anybody that gets in the way by accident or deliberately and the courts can not review whether the secretary had the authority , whether this is constitutional .  last year we had certain court-stripping legislation before us to say that the court shall have no jurisdiction to hear a claim against the constitutionality of the defense of marriage act .  one other thing , i got up on this floor and i said , this is going to become boiler plate language in bills , and here it is .  it did not even mention it .  boiler plate language .  `` no court shall review any action the secretary may take. '' i thought the republican party stood for limited government .  this says the secretary is absolute dictator , as absolute as stalin .  what kind of language is this ?  regardless of the merits of this bill , regardless of the merits of this provision in general , this is disgraceful .  mr. chairman , how much time remains ?  mr. chairman , i grant myself the remainder of the time .  mr. chairman , i demand a recorded vote .  mr. chairman , no person in our country should be given unfettered authority , unfettered discretion to waive any or all laws , for whatever the purpose .  take this situation .  in order to expedite construction of this fence , the department of homeland security could select a contractor without competitive bidding , use undocumented workers , violate child labor laws , pay the workers less than the minimum wage , exempt contractors from federal and state withholding ; workers could be forced to put in 18-hour-days without overtime pay , in unsafe conditions , and be transported in trucks used for hazardous cargo ; and allow the secretary discretion to have these workers construct fences and roads through private property .  that is wrong .  you can build a fence , but you do not have to violate all those laws .  mr. chairman , how much time remains ?  mr. chairman , how many speakers does the gentleman have remaining ?  mr. chairman , i am the last remaining speaker on my side .  how much time do i have remaining ?  that is what we tried to do .  mr. speaker , i yield myself 8 minutes .  mr. speaker , this bill before us today makes clear that we have now spent $ 284 billion in iraq and afghanistan since the war began .  the money that has been spent in afghanistan is certainly legitimate and justified .  after all , that country harbored the people who attacked us on 9/11 .  the problem is , however , that $ 165 billion has now been spent to deal with a country that did not attack us .  we have spent some $ 240 billion on this entire endeavor since the president first landed in his jumpsuit on that carrier and addressed the country under the banner `` mission accomplished. '' there has been quite a bit of that mission left since it supposedly was over .  we have now been involved in iraq longer than we were involved in world war i , and respectable and responsible experts have told me that they expect that we will be involved for at least another 5 years .  this whole operation has been brought to us by the same people who erroneously told us that we had to go to war because iraq had weapons of mass destruction and it was implied that they had , or were close to having , nuclear capability .  that was all demonstrated not to be true .  this has been brought to us by the same people who believed the assertions that our troops would be welcomed with open arms .  it has been brought to us by the same people who thought they were so smart that they knew more than general shinseki when the good general warned us that we would need substantially more troops and boots on the ground than we were scheduled to have if the postwar occupation was to go well .  and it has been brought to us by the same people who provided to our troops insufficient armor for humvees , insufficient body armor and insufficient jammers to prevent our troops from having their faces and their legs and their arms blown off by remotely detonated bombs and mines .  i want to make quite clear i will support this bill because i feel that i have no choice but to participate in cleaning up the mess which somebody else left .  but i do not relish it .  i believe that the entire operation in iraq has been accompanied by incredibly naive romanticism on the part of the white house and on the part of the civilian leadership in the pentagon , and that has left the people fighting the war to bear the brunt of the miscalculations that have been made by the civilian leadership of our government .  we have lost the lives of 1 , 500 american service men and women .  we have seen more than 11 , 000 be injured .  and this bill understates , in my view , the amount of money that will be needed eventually to restore the readiness of the u.s. armed forces and to minimize their casualties .  the second thing this bill does is to demonstrate once again how we , on both sides of the aisle , have had to work doubly hard to overcome the resistance of the white house in adequately funding homeland security operations .  they have been especially resistant to providing the adequate funding along the borders , especially the canadian border .  and it has taken a bipartisan effort on the part of a wide variety of people in this congress in order to overcome that resistance .  this bill falls far short of the funding that is necessary to provide a secure set of borders for the united states .  the new bill that is going to be offered by the gentleman from kentucky will help fill that gap , but that is forced to play catch-up because we have met a steady resistance effort on the part of the white house .  lastly , i simply want to say that while i am certainly no expert on the subject , i note that there is being attached to this bill a provision which many experts in the field feel has the potential to construct a nationwide database that could be very harmful in terms of people 's efforts to engage in identity theft .  i hope that proves not to be the case .  i would simply make the point that certainly no one on our committee on either side of the aisle has the expertise that you would hope would be found in the authorization committees , and i wish that that provision had been dealt with on a separate bill rather than solving an internal problem within the republican caucus by having it attached to an unrelated bill , and i want to make one point about that .  we are being lectured almost daily by the majority that we should not add ungermane riders to appropriation bills .  i want to serve notice that if the majority feels free to add unrelated authorization bills such as this to a must-pass bill , that then i feel fully within my rights in offering whatever authorization legislation we feel appropriate on this side of the aisle and asking that it be attached to appropriation bills .  if sauce is going to be okay for the goose , then it ought to be good for the gander .  so we will see in the coming months what the attitude of the majority is when we seek to add what we feel are legitimate efforts to strengthen appropriation bills by adding various pieces of so-called legislation to appropriation bills .  so since the majority has chosen to proceed down that path , i hope they raise no objection when we seek to follow it .  with that , mr. speaker , again , i repeat i intend to vote for this bill with all of my misgivings .  mr. speaker , i reserve the balance of my time .  mr. speaker , can i inquire how much time each side has remaining .  mr. speaker , i yield myself 3 minutes .  mr. speaker , i take this time to explain the motion to recommit that i will offer at the end of this debate .  here is what it does : the senate bill contains funding for a total of 150 , 000 border patrol agents , 250 immigration investigators , and 168 immigration enforcement agents , and detention officers and their associated training and support cast .  this conference agreement falls short of the senate bill in 3 areas .  it only contains funds for 500 border patrol agents , not the 150 , 000 called for in the senate bill .  it only contains funding for 50 immigration investigators , not the 250 called for in the senate bill .  last , it also contains no funding for unmanned border aerial vehicles .  the motion to recommit is simple .  it would take us to the levels contained in the senate bill for border patrol agents by adding funding for 550 additional border patrol agents and for 200 immigration investigators .  it would also fund unmanned border aerial vehicles that have been used successfully in a test in arizona to assist in surveillance .  former dhs deputy secretary lloyd testified that the vehicles provided `` invaluable '' service .  since border patrol agents are trained at the federal law enforcement training center in artesia , new mexico , funding is included like the senate bill to purchase and operate modular classrooms for these additional agents .  this motion , in short , would provide an additional $ 284.4 million to immigration and customs enforcement to do this as was in the senate bill .  need i remind anyone that the intelligence reform bill , which became law last december , called for 2 , 000 additional border patrol agents a year and 800 additional immigration investigators ?  the president requested no funding for that supplemental request .  i would note that on march 30 the administration announced it would add more than 500 agents in arizona , but those are not new agents .  135 of them or so will come from other southwest and southern border patrol locations , and the remainder are simply new trainees who will replace agents retiring or leaving the border patrol across the country .  so i would simply urge house members to vote for this motion .  it ought not be at all controversial .  it is practical if you want to put your money where your press releases have been with respect to border patrol .  mr. speaker , in this form , i am .  mr. speaker , i object to the vote on the ground that a quorum is not present and make the point of order that a quorum is not present .  mr. speaker , i rise in support of the wartime supplemental that includes urgent funding for our soldiers and sailors now prosecuting the global war on terror in afghanistan and iraq .  this bill also has important additional funding for border security , and language important to south texas shrimpers that will make it easier for them to hire workers for the coming season .  as a member of the house armed services committee , i know our soldiers can do anything .  yet that truth does not mean that the congress should skimp on our financial obligations to our fighting men and women .  they run out of money altogether at the end of this month , so i am pleased we are finalizing this bill today .  as a border congressman , i am grateful that the conferees included desperately needed funding for border security .  i have been relentless in talking to so many of you about my concerns related to spending on border security matters .  i thank the gentleman from wisconsin , mr. obey , for his work in getting negotiators to include this spending .  while this is a good start , it still comes up short of both what we need and what the intelligence reform bill mandated we do .  the intelligence reform bill passed by congress last year mandated 2 , 000 border patrol agents a year for the next 5 years .  the president came to the table with only 210 in his budget ; today we are adding another 500 .  that 's still over 1 , 000 short of what this government agrees is the very least we should do to protect our border and stem the tide of releasing otms -- illegal immigrants that are `` other than mexican '' -- into the u.s. general population .  given our border security is entirely budget driven , this is a rare victory for those of us who have been talking about the need to put our money where our mouth is when it comes to protecting our nation from terrorists that may be trying to enter the country through the loopholes in our border security policy .  we are sending our young soldiers to fight and die in iraq and afghanistan and we justify that by saying we are fighting the war there so we will not have to fight it here .  we may very well be fighting a war over there and letting terrorists in our back door .  as so many south texans and my colleagues know , i have been lifting my voice about how border security is profoundly lacking .  currently , the united states does not have room to hold the large number of otms , caught by border law enforcement .  while i know that most of these immigrants are merely seeking a better life , it is the few -- the handful -- that may be entering our country to do us harm .  that is whom we need to worry about .  so we are releasing , on their own recognizance , into the population of the united states very large numbers of otms. what happens is our border patrol agents routinely call detention facilities and discover there is no room to hold otms. so , they process these immigrants , many times without even getting fingerprints or running them through our national databases to see if they are on watch lists , and release them into the general population with a notice to appear at a deportation hearing a few weeks later .  law enforcement officers then take the released otms to the local bus station by the vanload , where they head elsewhere in the u.s. the number that never appear for deportation is over 90 percent of those released , a number now probably over 75 , 000 .  already the number of otms captured and released is more , so far this year , than for all of last year .  it is little wonder that private citizens are taking the law into their own hands to try to stem the tide of otms coming into our country .  but private militias , operating without the color of law , are not the answer .  we must secure our borders so private citizens do not feel the need to do so .  as a former law enforcement officer i know if we do n't have the border officers to stop the otms crossing the border , if we do n't have the room to hold the ones we catch , if we do n't put our money where our mouth is , we continue to send a dangerous signal to those who may wish to do us harm .  until we send a signal that those who cross our borders illegally , until we send a signal that when we catch you we will hold you until you are deported , until we honestly face the amount of money it will take to deal with these things , otms will continue to flock to the u.s. , quite possibly populating terror cells already operating in the united states .  unfortunately , the leadership decided to include many controversial provisions that members would n't otherwise support if they were n't linked to funding our troops .  i do not agree with some of the so-called security provisions in this bill , mainly the stricter asylum laws and national standards for drivers ' licenses .  a country like ours that believes so greatly in freedom and the protection of the oppressed should be a safe haven for refugees that are being persecuted by their governments because of their race , religion or political beliefs , which is why we are fighting the war we fund in this bill .  i am also disappointed congress has gone one step further in creating a national id .  many would suggest that a drivers ' license is the way terrorists are infiltrating our country .  that is simply not the case .  standardizing a drivers ' license would not have precluded the 9/11 terrorists from entering this country -- immigration reform and better border security practices would have .  today 's bill is a start in putting our money where our mouth is , but it is still insufficient to the monumental border security task before us and i ask our appropriators to ensure the necessary funding is included in the fiscal year 2006 appropriations bill .  ms. millender-mcdonald .  mr. speaker , as the ranking democrat of the committee on house administration , i wish to comment briefly on key provisions of this supplemental appropriations bill that touch upon my committee 's jurisdiction .  i commend the conferees for including $ 2.6 million for taking `` technical countermeasures '' to assure the electronic integrity of the visitor center now under construction here at the capitol .  given the status of that construction project , this matter is time-sensitive , and while we have no reason to believe anyone involved with the construction may be seeking to install surreptitious listening devices within the building 's walls and fittings , we know there are people in this world who might like to do so .  it is prudent to take reasonable steps against it , and thus eliminate any chance of repeating what happened during construction of the u.s. embassy in moscow some years ago .  i also commend the conferees for including $ 8.4 million to refresh the supply of `` quick masks '' deployed around the capitol complex to protect persons against chemical or biological attack .  the current masks have a limited shelf-life , and making these funds available now will expedite the process of replacement as they approach their expiration dates .  there is no question that the congress needs a new off-site delivery center , to facilitate the secure , timely delivery of packages to the capitol and congressional office buildings .  i am pleased the conferees included funds for a temporary facility to replace the substandard site now used , and funds for design of a permanent facility .  i trust that given the importance of deliveries to the capitol , any difficulties between the two houses over the nature of the delivery system can be resolved quickly .  finally , i wish to comment on something the conferees did not include in this bill , namely , any funding for up to 132 additional capitol police officers during fiscal 2005 .  these 132 officers , when added together with 122 more requested as part of the police 's fiscal 2006 request , would increase the sworn ranks by another 254 officers , an increase of roughly 16 % within two years .  obviously , with less than five months remaining in fiscal 2005 , the police could not hire and fully train 132 more officers by september 30 , so there is little reason to include funds in this bill , or even the funds for all 50 more officers included in the senate bill .  i am pleased that under these circumstances , the conferees chose to defer a decision about the need i thank our friends on the appropriations committee for their difficult and prudent decisions on the legislative-branch portion of this bill .  i look forward to working with them , and with our colleagues on my own committee , as the work of the legislative branch forges ahead .  mr. chairman , i move to strike the last word .  mr. speaker , i thank the gentleman from wisconsin ( mr. obey )  , our distinguished ranking member , the lead democrat on the committee on appropriations for his leadership for his very important motion to recommit .  mr. speaker , before i get into talking about the bill , i want to commend both the distinguished chairman of the committee on appropriations , the gentleman from california ( mr. lewis )  and our distinguished ranking members on the committee on appropriations and subcommittee on defense .  over the years , they have worked very hard and provided great leadership for our men and women in uniform and for the security of our country .  there is much about this bill that i support .  i have some concerns which i will express but none of that diminishes the regard and appreciation i have for the gentleman from california ( mr. lewis )  and the gentleman from pennsylvania ( mr. murtha )  and the gentleman from wisconsin ( mr. obey )  .  mr. speaker , for the fourth time since the president ordered the invasion of iraq 2 years ago , congress has been asked to provide funds for the war outside the regular budget .  with nearly 140 , 000 troops in dire need of equipment and supplies , this legislation will be overwhelmingly approved and i will support it .  a willingness to provide our troops the support they need , however , should not be mistaken for support for the repeated failures in judgment that first put our troops in harm 's way and that keeps them there today .  two years ago this week on may 1 , 2003 , president bush stood on an aircraft carrier under a banner that proclaimed `` mission accomplished. '' considering the events that followed and what has been disclosed since then , if the president were to stand under a banner today it would have to read `` credibility demolished. '' we are in the war 's third year .  daily headlines are grim reminders of how far we are from a stable and secure iraq , and the president has yet to provide a plan to get us to that place .  we are fast approaching sadly 1 , 600 u.s. military deaths and thousands of more have suffered grievous and lasting wounds .  i have had the privilege to pay my respects to troops in theater and in hospitals in europe and in the united states .  whatever our disagreement about the policy which brought us into the war , whatever our disagreement on the lack of planning to end it , it never diminishes the regard that we have for our men and women in uniform .  we respect them and we appreciate their courage , their patriotism and the sacrifice they are willing to make for our country .  and on any opportunity that many of us have , we express that to them personally .  the president 's rationale for the invasion was discredited long ago .  iraq remains unsafe .  i talked about credibility in terms of the lack of planning .  there is also a lack of credibility in budgeting .  although appropriations for iraq approaches $ 200 billion , the president 's budget requests no money for the war on the grounds that the cost is unknowable .  instead , the president chooses to include a figure for the war 's cost , zero , that everyone knows to be wrong .  here we are today on thursday talking about a supplemental with a set amount in it of emergency funding for our troops , and we passed the budget last thursday .  it was not one week ago we did not know what the cost would be and now we do this week .  this is simply not an honest way to do our budgeting .  our troops need relief and their equipment needs repair and replacement .  the risk assessment released by the joint chiefs of staff this week shows the strain on our military is real and unsustainable .  and it is clear that the figure in the supplemental is really not enough to meet to meet the measure that the chairman mentioned .  providing money alone as this bill will do is not enough .  a way out must be provided as well .  we must focus on quality rather than quantity when training iraqi security forces , accelerate iraq 's reconstruction in ways that give iraqis a major stake in rebuilding their country , and step up regional diplomatic efforts to heal the strife on which the insurgency thrives .  i was pleased to be part of the bipartisan delegation that visited iraq during holy week , and i can tell you that firsthand that we have a long way to go to reaching those goals .  our experience in iraq strongly suggest that if we do not take these steps and soon , about training the security forces , accelerating iraq 's reconstruction , and stepping up regional diplomacy or as the gentleman from pennsylvania ( mr. murtha )  would say , iraq-atize , internationalize and energize , if we do not do this and soon , americans may wonder for years to come if the end will ever be in sight .  the funds provided for our troops in iraq and afghanistan , for the relief of those devastated by the tsunami , to aid those suffering in darfur and elsewhere , and to promote middle east peace are necessary and important .  were conferees able to focus solely on these issues , their final product would have been much stronger .  however , since this bill is must-pass legislation , house republicans demanded the inclusion of controversial immigration provisions .  these provisions would be much better considered as part of a comprehensive immigration reform effort .  these provisions will make asylum harder to obtain for those seeking a haven from persecution and place a huge unfunded responsibility on the states to verify information used to support a driver 's license application .  this is an unfunded mandate .  this is an unfunded mandate and it is not part of the contract with america , no unfunded mandates .  since this is a conference report , we can not have a ruling from the chair that will allow us to discuss some specifics about the unfunded mandate , the driver 's license application that is in the bill .  it sounds like a good idea .  but if you are at the desk at the department of motor vehicles and you have now become an immigration officer because you have to prove the citizenship , or at least the legality of somebody being in the country , it is a big burden , it is costly , and it is unfunded .  we have given a mandate without the money and really without the consideration that this provision should have been given .  in addition , we unwisely vest in the secretary of homeland security the power to weigh federal and state environmental and labor laws .  this in the name of securing our borders .  securing our borders should be a national priority , which makes it all the more inexplicable that the president did not request in his budget the extra border patrol agents and detention beds authorized by congress last year in response to the recommendations of the 9/11 commission .  bipartisan efforts in the senate do more for border security in this bill and were rebuffed by house republicans in favor of provisions that trample on the rights of individuals and states , and may result in the diminishment of the safety of the american people .  i commend the gentleman from wisconsin ( mr. obey )  for offering his motion to recommit to fund border security at the senate levels .  he also had this as a motion to instruct when the conferees were named , to add $ 1 billion so that we could have the border security that was recommended by the 9/11 commission .  but that was rejected .  so we talk a great deal about securing the border , but we are not putting the resources there to do the job .  thank heavens senator byrd prevailed with part of the money in the senate .  we can do more .  we should have done more .  the gentleman from wisconsin ( mr. obey )  has been a champion on this issue year in and year out as far as this discussion has been going .  again , border security , border security , border security , and then we can talk about a comprehensive immigration policy .  i hope that all of our colleagues will give an overwhelming support of this body to the obey motion to recommit .  mr. speaker , for many reasons , this is not an easy bill to support .  the legitimate emergency needs to which it responds , particularly the needs of our men and women in uniform overseas , are real and must be addressed .  a much better job , though , must be done to create conditions to allow large numbers of them to come home and to come home soon .  mr. speaker , i urge our colleagues to support the gentleman from wisconsin 's motion to recommit .  mr. chairman , i thank the gentleman from mississippi for yielding me time .  mr. chairman , as the only member of congress with a background in immigration and experience in actually defending our nation 's borders , and after being here for 8 years in the house , i am profoundly disappointed at how much we talk about this issue and how little we do when it comes to immigration .  prior to coming to congress , i served for 26 1/2 years in the united states border patrol , so i know firsthand about the effort to protect our borders and how to keep america secure .  since coming to congress , i have heard a lot about how we need to crack down on illegal immigration in this country , but have seen very little action when it comes to providing adequate funding for the kinds of programs that i know work in dealing with the problem of illegal immigration .  for instance , just this week , with the release of the president 's budget , as my colleague mentioned , last august we were tough on the issue of immigration by saying we wanted 10 , 000 new border patrol agents and we wanted to create 40 , 000 new detention beds .  the administration in their budget wants to hire 210 border patrol agents .  they are silent on the issue of detention .  the administration also has proposed zeroing out very important programs to communities that deal with undocumented aliens , programs like the state criminal alien assistance program , the state prosecutors program , all zeroed out in this budget .  mr. chairman , the reason i am going to oppose this legislation is because i am sick and tired of coming here and talking , talking about the issue .  i am sick and tired of hearing arguments on who is going to do what .  just last monday , i was with some of my former colleagues at a port of entry in el paso , and they were asking me what kind of immigration reform would come out of this effort .  regrettably , mr. chairman , i told them , look , we said we were going to fund 10 , 000 agents ; we got 210 .  that is why i am going to vote against this legislation , and i urge my colleagues to do the same .  let us have a real and earnest debate on what needs to be done to protect this country .  i am , mr. speaker , in its present form .  mr. speaker , i demand a recorded vote .  mr. chairman , i rise in opposition to h.r. 418 the real id act , because , contrary to its sponsors ' claims , this bill will not improve our country 's security .  instead , it will weaken law enforcement 's ability to do its job , and make driving on our roads more dangerous .  in addition , this bill eliminates critical provisions in the intelligence reform and terrorism prevention act passed by congress in 2004 .  finally , the real id act makes it much more difficult for immigrants who are fleeing persecution to gain refuge in the united states .  mr. chairman , while there are many good reasons to oppose this bill , as i previously outlined , i will focus on the driver 's license provision and the asylum provision .  barring undocumented immigrants from accessing driver 's licenses is a dangerous proposal .  withholding driver 's licenses from these individuals will not fix our broken immigration system .  it will only make us less safe by having unlicensed and uninsured drivers on our roads .  the american automobile association ( aaa ) foundation for traffic safety report entitled , `` unlicensed to kill , '' found that unlicensed drivers are almost five times more likely to be in fatal car accidents than are validly licensed drivers .  clearly , our goal should be to have more , not fewer , licensed drivers .  denying licenses to undocumented immigrants will also hurt our national security by depriving law enforcement officials of critical information on millions of adults who are in the united states .  licensed individuals are registered , photographed and in some states fingerprinted .  this information is then entered into a database accessible to local and state law enforcement , fbi personnel and immigration officers , helping law enforcement to separate otherwise law abiding individuals from terrorist or criminals .  in fact , because many of the 9/11 hijackers did have a driver 's license , the records kept by state departments of motor vehicles were invaluable after 9/11 in tracking where the terrorist had been and with whom they had associated .  this information was used mr. chairman , there is no doubt that we must be proactive in the defense of our nation by identifying weaknesses in our security systems and making appropriate changes that will protect us from a terrorist attack .  for this reason , congress and the president charged the 9/11 commission to study our intelligence failures and make recommendations that would improve our systems .  those recommendations were , enacted into law with the passage of the intelligence reform and terrorism prevention act of 2004 just three months ago .  the intelligence reform bill required states to establish stringent standards for the issuance of driver 's licenses and identification cards .  among the new standards are requirements that licenses contain digital photographs , employ machine readable technology and contain security features to prevent tampering , counterfeiting or duplication .  currently , effective and workable federal standards furthermore , the asylum provisions in the real id act do nothing to enhance our nation 's security .  instead , the real id act serves only to deny people who are fleeing religious persecution , torture and other horrors the ability to escape into safety .  given the fact that an asylum seeker is immediately held in detention before his claim is processed , a terrorist would not risk claiming asylum to enter our country .  mr. chairman , real id act is a real bad idea for america .  this bill will make our roads more dangerous , inhibit the work of law enforcement , and undermine the homeland security measures enacted in the intelligence reform and terrorism prevention act of 2004 .  i urge my colleagues to oppose this bill and instead focus on implementing the counter-terrorism provisions enacted into law just a few months ago .  mr. speaker , i rise in reluctant support of h.r. 1268 , the war supplemental appropriations bill for fiscal year 2005 , which will provide funding for military operations and reconstruction activities in iraq and afghanistan , as well as important funds for tsunami relief and recovery .  i say `` reluctant support '' because the republican leadership has made a very poor and political decision to include controversial legislative provisions in this emergency spending bill that otherwise enjoys almost universal support because it provides needed assistance for our servicemen and women overseas .  it goes without saying , mr. speaker , that our servicemen and women deserve to have the equipment and support they need to help keep them safe as they fulfill their missions abroad .  towards that end , the appropriations committee increased funding by 69 percent above the president 's request for add-on vehicle armor kits , new trucks , and radio jammers to disrupt attempts by iraqi insurgents to explode remote controlled bombs and mines .  the bill also includes important provisions to increase the military death gratuity and to provide subsidized life insurance benefits for families of soldiers who die or are killed on active duty .  no amount can compensate for the tragic death of a loved one , but an increase in these benefits can help a family cope with the financial impact of a combat death .  i am also pleased that additional funds have been provided for humanitarian relief and disaster assistance , including $ 400 million for sudan , $ 907 million for indian ocean tsunami relief , and $ 240 million in p.l .  480 grants for emergency food assistance .  but i am extremely upset and disappointed that the republican leadership is using this critical bill as a vehicle to pass unrelated and controversial policies , that will allow the department of homeland security to preempt state and federal laws to build border fences , require uniform national standards for issuing driver 's licenses , and change the asylum standards for immigrants seeking to flee to the united states to avoid persecution .  in particular , the bill includes an assault against the matricula consular cards issued by mexican and other latin american consulates , and consequently makes it an assault on our immigrant families who rely upon this form of identification in their daily lives for transactions involving banking , housing , education and even proving , when necessary , that they are the parents of their own children .  these provisions why does the republican leadership continue to abuse its power and shut out the american public ?  because the republican leadership knows that if these controversial provisions were openly debated in the house and senate they would not pass .  only by attaching these provisions to a must-pass bill like the emergency supplemental appropriations bill for our troops in iraq could they hope to be successful .  mr. speaker , this is just one more example of abuse of power by a republican leadership that continues to act irresponsibly on issues of importance to our american society .  nevertheless , in spite of my concerns , given the choice before us , i believe it is my responsibility to provide our servicemen and women the resources necessary for them to fulfill their mission and come home safely .  protecting our troops , who are sacrificing so much on our behalf , and providing for their families , will always be one of my highest priorities , and that is why , once again , i will support this necessary and important conference report today .  mr. chairman , i am a proud daughter of immigrants who is honored to serve my country .  i consider it a privilege to be able to give something back to this country that has given so much opportunity to generations of immigrants over the years .  like millions of immigrants here today , my family came to this country in search of the american dream : a better life for their children so that their children could receive a quality education , some day own a home , and earn a fair wage .  i stand before my colleagues today angered and outraged that under the guise of national security , the republican party is trying to punish those seeking the same dreams that my parents sought .  if the republicans and this administration really want to strengthen national security , they should start , i would think , by providing full funding for the department of homeland security .  instead , the administration 's budget slashes funding for the cops program by $ 480 million and guts funding for local firefighters by $ 215 million .  this leaves our first responders without the critical resources they need .  the administration 's budget also breaks the promise of putting an additional 2 , 000 border patrol agents on the job in 2006 as promised in landmark intelligence reforms passed last year and endorsed by the 9/11 commission .  instead , the president 's budget provides funding for a mere 210 agents , a 90 percent cut over the 9/11 commission recommendations .  the truth of the matter is that republicans are using national security as a facade to alienate law-abiding , hard-working , and tax-paying immigrants .  there are 8 million undocumented immigrants in this country who are cleaning our offices , caring for our children and elderly , and picking the fruits and vegetables that we consume .  most of these jobs most americans do not want .  without these immigrants , our economy would falter .  what we should be doing is allowing immigrants a path to citizenship and access to driver 's licenses so they become a part of our american system .  this will make our country safer , and it will strengthen our national security .  we need comprehensive reform that supports our economy and values our immigrants .  if the real id act is passed today , it will deny driver 's licenses to those immigrants and slam the door shut on refugees seeking asylum from blood-thirsty regimes .  america is a country built by immigrants , and we should remain a country that is opening and welcoming to those who seek freedom .  it is a sad day when republicans use the pretext of national security to attack immigrants who pose no real threat to our security .  americans deserve better , and i urge my colleagues to vote `` no '' on h.r. 418 .  mr. chairman , i rise in opposition to h.r. 1268 , the emergency supplemental wartime appropriations act for fy 2005 .  my opposition to this bill does not mean that i do not support our troops .  i wholeheartedly support our troops and believe that we should fully fund our troops so that they have the necessary equipment to ensure their safety .  also incorporated into this bill is funding for tsunami relief efforts for affected southeast asian countries .  having gone to sri lanka and personally seen the devastation , i know how important our relief efforts are for these countries .  sadly , i 'm opposing h.r. 1268 because it includes the real id act of 2005 .  the real id act of 2005 would deny drivers ' licenses to immigrants , and slam the doors on refugees seeking asylum from persecution .  the real , bad , id act has nothing to do with supporting our troops , let alone national security .  it is such a shame that republicans had to incorporate the real id act in the iraq supplemental and tsunami relief when it has nothing to do with these two pressing issues .  this is an unprecedented move on the part of the republican leadership and this concerns me .  the real id act , h.r. 418 will not make us safer .  what h.r. 418 will do is undermine several key security features that were dealt with responsibly in the intelligence reform legislation which was based on the 9-11 commission recommendations .  if the republicans and this administration really want to strengthen national security , they should start by providing full funding for the department of homeland security , particularly the security improvements authorized in the intelligence reform bill .  yet the president 's 2006 budget did not include funding for 10 , 000 new border guards , 40 , 000 new detention beds to hold people awaiting deportation , and 4 , 000 new immigration inspectors as the bill dictates .  the administration merely funds 210 new border patrol agents .  as the proud daughter of immigrants , i am pleased to be serving my country as a member of congress .  it is a great honor to be giving back to america , a country that has given my family so much .  like millions of immigrants , my parents came here in search of the american dream and to give their children the opportunity to secure a promising future .  again , i am outraged and saddened that republicans are using the pretext of national security to attack immigrants who pose no real threat to our safety .  america is a country built by immigrants , and we should remain a country that is open and welcoming to those seeking freedom .  the u.s. has always been a beacon of hope and we must continue to guard the light of liberty for those who are oppressed or displaced .  mr. speaker , on rollcall no .  23 , had i been present , i would have voted `` nay . '' mr. chairman , i thank the gentleman for yielding me time .  mr. chairman , i will vote in favor of this bill .  we can not let our troops down who are out there on the front line .  let me wish our new chairman the very best in his maiden voyage through this body on the floor .  mr. chairman , i want my colleagues to know that my vote is not a full endorsement of the bill .  i am troubled that we continue to resort to supplementals to fund our efforts in iraq and in afghanistan .  i think we can do a better job making sure our troops on the front line have everything they need if we put funding for these operations up front in the fiscal year rather than halfway through it like we are doing in a supplemental like this .  i also think we should require more rigorous accounting of the war costs .  this is important .  we need better information to conduct our constitutional duty of oversight .  most important , my reservations have to do with the fact that we still do not have a coherent strategy for success in iraq .  when i go back home i get questions from my constituents about the war in iraq and its costs .  what is the meaning of winning in iraq ?  how will we know when we have won and we can leave , especially when for every insurgent we kill there seems to be another to take his place ?  are we trying any more to win the hearts and minds of the iraqi people ?  if so , when will the iraqis be ready to take over their own security ?  many in the administration have said we can not put a timetable on the withdrawal .  i agree .  we can not put a timetable on it .  but while we should avoid a schedule , we must have a `` to do '' list .  we must set goals for the iraqi forces .  we must be able to measure the progress of those iraqi forces in attaining those goals .  i voted for the resolution authorizing the use of force in iraq .  i will vote for this bill .  we must win in iraq .  but i see no game plan .  there is nothing in this bill that forces the administration to level with us and to level with the american people about either the real costs or about our strategy for success .  in my opinion this is a missed opportunity .  mr. chairman , i urge my colleagues to vote for this bill , but we should all realize that this is far from a perfect way of running operation iraqi freedom .  mr. chairman , i would simply like to submit my statement for the record on this particular issue in opposition to the real id act .  mr. chairman , i rise today in strong opposition of the real id act .  h.r. 418 is mean-spirited legislation that threatens our national security by depriving law enforcement officials of critical information on many adults who are physically present in the united states .  the driver 's license real id act will also impose additional requirements on states , without providing funding , and interfere with what is inherently a state responsibility .  the real id act will also raise insurmountable hurdles for refugees seeking asylum .  this bill will negatively affect women refugees seeking asylum from honor killings , rape and sex trafficking , since most women can not provide direct proof of torture .  i do not understand how supporters of this bill can turn their backs on victims of sex trafficking in the name of protecting homeland security .  finally , i am particularly disappointed that the authors of this bill have ignored real security threats .  like the need to upgrade the safety of our chemical and nuclear plants .  instead they have introduced a sweeping new law that allows the department of homeland security to unilaterally strip away civil rights , labor , health and environmental laws to build a border fence .  this will be done without any recourse for the average american citizen impacted by the construction .  this does n't make our country safer , it just takes away the liberties that make america a model for the world .  i strongly urge all members to vote `` no '' on h.r. 418 .  mr. chairman , today i voted in support of the fiscal year 2005 iraq and tsunami relief supplemental .  this decision was difficult for me .  i strongly opposed the real id act of 2005 .  the real id act has no place on a bill to fund support for our military families and tsunami victims .  in fact , i voted against h.r. 418 when it was considered by the u.s. house of representatives on february 10 , 2005 .  this type of political game was vicious attempt to portray those who believe real id is a bad policy as unpatriotic , and i refuse to make servicemembers and their families ' losers of that game .  i voted for this spending bill because it includes equipment and services that our troops and their families need desperately .  it includes additional funds for health care services , mental health for veterans , active duty servicemembers and their families , and financial assistance to help members of the national guard transition back into civilian life .  this legislation also provides an increase in the amount of life insurance for troops , an increase in the death benefit for families of fallen military members , and provides additional funding so our troops have the armored humvees and personal protection they need while serving in iraq .  with the knowledge we have today about the lack of protective equipment and inability of our system to serve military families , i do not believe that withholding funds from our military families and tsunami victims is the right way to solve the predicament the bush administration has created .  i remain very concerned about the bush administration 's lack of a clear exit strategy in iraq and i will continue to fight for real immigration reform and for a clear plan so our troops can come home and democracy can thrive in an iraq run by iraqis .  mr. chairman , i 'm starting to wonder if the republican majority was listening to the president when he called for the united states to act as a beacon of freedom for the world .  for our first substantive legislation of the year , they would make it nearly impossible for victims of torture and religious persecution to seek refuge in the u.s. and they would get us ever closer to establishing a national id .  we all accept that sometimes freedom must be sacrificed for security , but the 9/11 commission itself said that these big brother , anti-immigrant provisions do nothing to enhance national security .  this bill makes changes to the asylum process and state drivers licenses , presumably to address the widely-reported anecdote that the first world trade center bombers abused the asylum system and had a total of 63 drivers licenses .  however , you have to question the motives of the supporters of this bill when the asylum system was already strengthened ten years ago and the 63 drivers licenses are simply an urban legend .  the 9/11 commission found that the hijackers actually had 13 , and this bill would not have prevented any of them from being issued .  so without making the country safer , we 're going to deny refugees and victims of torture , rape , and other atrocities safe haven in this supposed beacon of freedom .  i guess the asylum system , which is the most rigorous immigration process in this country , resulting in 30 , 000 denials last year , is not good enough for the immigrant-bashers .  if this bill were to become law , an asylum applicant would have to provide documentary evidence of persecution .  i hope that residents of the darfur region of sudan remember to grab their personal files as their villages are being burned , because under this law , the presumption of credibility would go to the torturers and rapists .  the bill would also retroactively make legal donations , even donations made decades ago , grounds for deportation of green-card holders who have lived here for decades if the organization to which a donation was made was later added to a government terrorist list .  the last section of the bill then goes after american citizens .  the sponsors know that nobody would support a national id , so they 're just going to turn your drivers license into one without telling you .  it 'll look the same , but if this bill became law , all states would have to share all drivers license information in a national database , including identifying information , drivers ' histories , and motor vehicle violations .  on behalf of the oppressed people of this world who actually believed president bush when he said the u.s. would stand with them , and on behalf of americans who do n't confuse secret databases with security , i will vote no on this bill .  mr. chairman , i can not support the president 's request to spend billions more for this protracted war in iraq .  it 's time to bring our troops home .  next week we will commemorate the second anniversary of the war and u.s. occupation .  over 1 , 500 american lives have been lost along with countless numbers of iraqi civilians .  over 11 , 000 americans have been wounded .  the world is still not a safer place .  what have we gained ?  i disagree with those who claim a vote for this bill is a vote to support our troops .  i stand behind these brave americans and believe they ought to have every resource to protect them .  how is it supporting our troops to keep them in harms way without a plan to win this war ?  how is it supporting our troops when we continue to allow the bush administration to spend hundreds of millions of dollars at will on no bid government contracts with no oversight ?  how is it supporting our troops when we do n't provide for mental health services for those troops traumatized in combat ?  for all of these reasons , i 'm voting `` no '' on the president 's $ 81.3 billion supplemental request .  it is time for a plan to bring our troops home , not give the president another blank check .  mr. speaker , i rise in opposition to this supplemental appropriations bill for iraq and afghanistan .  at $ 82 billion , this is the second largest supplemental appropriations request passed by congress .  this is on top of an already bloated $ 400 billion defense budget .  instead of borrowing more from our children , congress ought to instead stop wasteful spending on ineffective , redundant and unnecessary weapons programs .  a supplemental of this size would n't even be necessary if congress dumped pie-in-the-sky missile defense programs , put a stop to the delayed and over budget f-22 and f-35 , and ended the boondoggle osprey that 's unsafe for our troops .  there is , however , a larger , more fundamental issue here .  the bush administration refuses to live up to the human costs of this ongoing war .  over 1 , 500 young americans dead , over 12 , 000 young americans maimed and wounded and countless iraqi civilians killed in the continuing bloodshed .  the message of my vote against this bill today is clear .  the immediate withdrawal of u.s. troops from iraq is necessary if the united states is serious about bringing peace and security to the iraqi people .  the continued presence of an american occupying force only intensifies the resentment , anger and distrust that fuels the ongoing violence against our troops .  it 's time to bring our troops home .  this message is lost on the bush administration .  they 've sought to establish american dominance in the region and to pursue regime change at any cost .  they 'll stay the course whatever the tragic consequences for the wives , husbands and families of our soldiers .  these brave young americans face down deadly conflict in the streets each and every day .  we honor their courage and service .  but , for their sake , everyone of us in this house must consider the burden they bear .  is it worth it for them and for all of us ?  america is not safer today two years after the capricious preemptive invasion of iraq .  terror networks continue to grow and recruit in response to the us ' arrogant preeminence in the middle east .  terrorism has been brought to the front door of america : waged mercilessly against our troops in places like baghdad and tikrit .  that terror wo n't stop until we get serious about involving the world in solving this conflict .  we must actively involve arab states , the united nations and our major world partners in taking a stand against these insurgents -- and in taking our place .  a large , multinational peacekeeping force is the soundest way forward to end the war and win the peace .  the bush administration can continue to throw billions at halliburton without real accountability .  they can continue to look the other way as profiteering trumps genuine reconstruction in iraq .  they can laud its new democracy as one of the key foundations necessary to sustain it -- iraq 's economy -- continues to flounder .  the bush administration can do all these things , but the end of this war will not come any day sooner .  what america needs most is honest leadership and a clear strategy for iraq .  that 's not reflected in this bill .  its just more money thrown at a crisis we can not solve through force of will alone .  that is our problem here today .  congress wo n't force our president and his advisors to live up to their failure .  we 'll vote to give them another blank check without addressing the fundamental illusion of our iraq policy : we can win the peace alone .  that 's a costly falsehood .  i urge my colleagues to take responsibility for the lives of our soldiers , iraq 's future , and the future security of the united states and the world .  vote down this bill .  it is time to bring our troops home .  mr. chairman , i yield myself such time as i may consume .  mr. chairman , the republican majority claims that this bill is an effort to prevent terrorists from entering the united states , not an effort to play partisan politics over immigration reform .  i would like to take them at their word , but if this bill really were about keeping terrorists out of the country , why is the republican majority not talking about the real threats of terrorists ' entry ?  why is the republican majority not concerned about the complete lack of an interagency border security plan ?  and why does the president 's budget not fully fund the mandates in the 9/11 intelligence bill , which we passed and he signed a few short months ago ?  why sign a bill if you have no intention of actually funding the items in the bill ?  mr. chairman , just one example : the president 's budget only provides for 210 new border patrol agents , even though the 9/11 intelligence bill authorized up to 2 , 000 .  we have caught at least one suspected terrorist who illegally waded across the rio grande .  why is the republican majority not talking about the failure of this administration to ensure that our frontline officers are able to check suspicious individuals against a comprehensive terrorist watch list ?  more than 3 years after 9/11 , why are more of our frontline personnel using obsolete name-checking systems , that have trouble telling the difference between `` bin laden '' and `` lyndon ?  `` is this real security ?  does this make america safer ?  this bill wholly fails to address these and other critical gaps in our border security .  the bill focuses on people already in the united states instead of keeping terrorists out .  the one aspect of this bill that seems directed at keeping people out of the united states is section 102 .  i understand this section originated from a desire to complete approximately 3 miles of a 14-mile fence along the border near san diego .  let me be clear : i am not against building a fence , but i do not think a fence will keep terrorists out of america .  homeland security expert stephen flynn , who is a retired commander of the u.s. coast guard , and jeane kirkpatrick , senior fellow in national security studies at the council on foreign relations , testified before the senate foreign relations committee that `` great powers have been building great walls throughout history .  the great wall of china and the berlin wall went up at considerable expense and treasure and ultimately failed to block or contain the forces they purported to obstruct. '' mr. flynn says that efforts by the united states to `` protect '' the southwest border , including installing a fence between san diego and tijuana , are similarly fated to fail .  mr. chairman , it is clear that this is not a good bill , and we are completely in opposition to it .  mr. chairman , i reserve the balance of my time .  mr. chairman , i demand a recorded vote .  mr. speaker , this conference report includes some items that i strongly support , and other things that i think should not have been included .  on balance , i will vote for it because i think it would unrealistic and irresponsible to do otherwise .  most of the money appropriated by this legislation is for our ongoing military activities , especially in iraq .  passage of this conference report will bring the total cost of operations in iraq to well over $ 200 billion -- and by now , two years after president bush prematurely announced the end of major military activities in iraq , i think even those who have been uncritical supporters of the administration should be deeply concerned about the escalating costs , not just in money but in casualties .  the time has come -- in fact , it is long since past -- for the administration to be candid about the costs not just of the war in iraq but of the administration 's overall foreign policy .  this should be the last time that the administration or the congress pays those costs through a supplemental appropriation bill instead of the regular budgetary and appropriation process .  the american people deserve to know in advance what they will be asked to pay to support the administration 's policies .  nonetheless , congress must not fail to supply our troops .  funds in this conference report will pay for more resources , including body armor and military equipment , needed to safeguard their lives .  the conference report also includes important provisions to raise the military death gratuity from $ 12 , 000 to $ 100 , 000 and to include a new insurance benefit of up to $ 100 , 000 for soldiers who have suffered traumatic injuries .  the report also increases funding for body armor for the army and marines , add-on vehicle armor kits , night-vision equipment , and electronic roadside-bomb jammers -- and includes funding for contract linguists for the army .  further , there is an imperative need for this funding .  the defense department reports that operating funds for the army are nearing exhaustion and that it will be necessary to transfer more than $ 1 billion from other accounts to continue essential activities at home and abroad until these supplemental funds are available .  in short , the choice before us today is to vote for this supplemental or , by voting against it , to in effect require an immediate halt to military operations not just in iraq but elsewhere .  and while i remain convinced it was an error to rush into war in iraq , i am equally convinced it would be just as much an error to rush to withdraw .  we do need a strategy to get us out -- which is why i 'm pleased that the conferees included language directing the secretary of defense to provide congress with a report that identifies security , economic , and iraqi security force training-performance standards and goals , accompanied by a timetable for achieving these goals .  but an immediate departure is neither good strategy nor would it mean peace for iraq .  i recently returned from my second trip to iraq -- this time as a member of the house armed services committee .  as a critic of the bush administration 's policy in iraq , i did not go there to confirm my opposition to the war , but rather , to gain knowledge based on face-to-face conversations with our military leaders , the iraqi leadership , an extraordinary group of iraqi women , and most important for me , with our troops on the ground .  i am convinced that there can be no successful exit strategy without first doing what is needed to enable the new iraqi government to take up the burden of providing security .  that will take time and money , and in the meantime we must maintain our efforts .  as the former head of american forces in northern iraq , brig .  gen .  carter ham , said recently , `` we do n't want a rush to failure. '' so , for me , the need to support the military funding in this conference report -- however unpleasant -- is clear .  the conference report also provides funding for tsunami disaster relief as well as for assistance in darfur , food aid to sudan and liberia , and for peacekeeping programs , most of which are for sudan .  importantly , the bill appropriates the president 's request of $ 200 million for economic development in the west bank and gaza strip .  other parts of the conference report are problematical , particularly the inclusion of provisions like those in the `` real id act , '' legislation that i opposed when the house passed it in february .  i believe these provisions will not strengthen national security , but will create undue difficulties for asylum seekers and excessively expand the powers of the secretary of homeland security .  this is a controversial issue that should have been addressed separately , not incorporated into this legislation .  an editorial in today 's rocky mountain news says this part of the conference report `` has much more to do with immigration than security '' and is just `` one piece of a policy , poorly thought out and scarcely debated at all , and likely to have unintended consequences. '' i think that is an accurate description .  the conference report also includes a provision that would revise the h-2b visa program , under which people can come into the country legally for seasonal non-agricultural work .  several industries in colorado are heavily dependent on the h-2b visa program to provide seasonal employees -- some in the summer and some in the winter .  while most of these companies try hard to find americans to fill these jobs , they have not been fully successful .  and the current limit on the numbers of visas has made it difficult for many of them to find the people they need .  so , they have been asking congress to revise the program .  however , while i am pleased that the report attempts to provide relief to companies struggling to find eligible employees , the specific provisions have some problems and may detrimentally affect some of the companies that have employed people entering under the h-2b program .  this is particularly true for companies whose busy season is in the winter , such as the ski industry .  they would actually be detrimentally affected by this provision because they do not rehire the same workers every year , and thus do not benefit from the provisions in the conference report that will exempt previously hired workers from the overall limit on the number of visas .  i wrote to conferees to urge a solution to the h-2b visa problem that would be equitable for both the winter and summer industries .  regrettably , the conference report does not fully meet that test .  still , it does make a good start to addressing the h-2b visa problem .  i hope that we will be able to build on this foundation in the future so as to protect the interests of both summer and winter industries .  the conference report also includes , as section 6063 , provisions to reaffirm the authority of the states and territories to regulate hunting and fishing .  this part of the conference report is identical to the text of h.r. 731 , which i introduced in the house , and to s. 339 , introduced in the senate by senator reid of nevada .  i applaud senator reid 's leadership in having this included when the senate considered this supplemental appropriations bill and i am glad that it was accepted by the conferees .  it will do two things -- ( 1 ) declare as congressional policy that it is in the public interest for each state to continue to regulate the taking of fish and wildlife within its boundaries , including by means of laws or regulations that differentiate between residents and non-residents ; and ( 2 ) provide that courts should not use congressional silence as a reason to impose any commerce-clause barrier to a state 's or tribe 's regulation of hunting or fishing .  its purpose is to reaffirm the authority of states and territories to regulate hunting and fishing by resolving questions that have arisen in the wake of a recent 9th circuit court of appeals decision that held that some arizona limits on non-resident hunting permits had constitutional defects .  ideally , of course , legislation of this sort should be handled through the regular authorization process , and i had hoped that the resources committee would have taken it up by now .  however , state fish and wildlife agencies will soon be considering regulations for coming seasons , and it is important that questions about their authority be resolved without unnecessary delay .  mr. speaker , there is nothing new about a state 's having different rules for resident and nonresident hunters or anglers .  colorado draws that distinction in several ways , and many other states do so as well .  and while there have been challenges to the validity of such rules , until recently the federal courts have upheld the right of the states to make such distinctions .  for example , in 1987 the federal district court for colorado , in the case of terk v. ruch ( reported at 655 f. supp .  205 ) , rejected a challenge to colorado 's regulations that allocated to coloradans 90 % of the available permits for hunting bighorn sheep and mountain goats .  but a recent court of appeals decision marked a change -- something that definitely is new .  in that case ( conservation force v. manning , 301 f.3rd 985 ; 9th cir .  2002 ) , the federal appeals court for the 9th circuit held that arizona 's 10 % cap on nonresident hunting of bull elk throughout the state and of antlered deer north of the colorado river had enough of an effect on interstate commerce that it could run afoul of what lawyers and judges call the `` dormant commerce clause '' of the constitution .  having reached that conclusion , the appeals court determined that the arizona regulation discriminated against interstate commerce -- meaning the `` dormant commerce clause '' did apply and that the regulation was subject to strict scrutiny , and could be upheld only if it served legitimate state purposes and the state could show that those interests could not be adequately served by reasonable non-discriminatory alternatives .  the appeals court went on to find that the regulations did further arizona 's legitimate interests in conserving its population of game and maintaining recreational opportunities for its citizens , but it remanded the case so a lower court could determine whether the state could meet the burden of showing that reasonable non-discriminatory alternatives would not be adequate .  because of the decision 's potential implications for their own laws and regulations , it was a source of concern to many states in addition to arizona .  in fact , 22 other states joined in supporting arizona 's request for the decision to be reviewed by the u.s. supreme court .  colorado was one of those states , and senator ken salazar , who was then colorado 's attorney general , joined in signing a brief in support of arizona 's petition for supreme court review .  regrettably , the supreme court denied that petition .  so , for now , the 9th circuit 's decision stands .  its immediate effect is on states whose federal courts are within that circuit -- namely those in alaska , arizona , california , hawaii , idaho , montana , nevada , oregon , and washington as well those of guam and the commonwealth of the northern marianas .  but it could have an effect on the thinking of federal courts across the country .  the purpose of this part of the conference report is to forestall that outcome , and so far as possible to return to the state of affairs prevailing before the 9th circuit 's decision .  it is intended to speak directly to the `` dormant commerce clause '' basis for the 9th circuit 's decision in conservation force v. manning .  i am not a lawyer , but my understanding is that lawyers and judges use that term to refer to the judicially established doctrine that the commerce clause is not only a `` positive '' grant of power to congress , but also a `` negative '' constraint upon the states in the absence of any congressional action -- in other words , that it restricts the powers of the states to affect interstate commerce in a situation where congress has been silent .  section 6036 ( b ) ( 1 ) would end the perceived silence of congress by affirmatively stating that state regulation of fishing and hunting -- including state regulation that treats residents and non-residents differently -- is in the public interest .  this is intended to preclude future application of the `` dormant commerce clause '' doctrine with regard to such regulations .  and section 6036 ( b ) ( 2 ) would make it clear that even when congress might have been silent about the subject , that silence is not to be construed as imposing a commerce-clause barrier to a state 's regulation of hunting or fishing within its borders .  these provisions are neither a federal mandate for state action nor a congressional delegation of authority to any state .  instead , they are intended to reaffirm state authority and make clear that the `` dormant commerce clause '' -- that is , congressional inaction -- is not to be construed as an obstacle to a state 's regulating hunting or fishing , even in ways that some might claim adversely affect interstate commerce by treating residents differently from nonresidents .  it 's also important to note that this part of the conference report is not intended to affect any federal law already on the books or to limit any authority of any indian tribe .  section 6036 ( c ) is intended to prevent any misunderstanding on these points .  section 6036 ( c ) ( 1 ) specifies that the bill will not `` limit the applicability or effect of any federal law related to the protection or management of fish or wildlife or to the regulation of commerce. '' thus , to take just a few examples for purposes of illustration , this part of the conference report will not affect implementation of the endangered species act , the migratory bird treaty act , the lacey act , the national wildlife refuge administration act , or the provisions of the alaska national interest lands conservation act dealing with subsistence .  section 6036 ( c ) ( 2 ) similarly provides that the bill is not to be read as limiting the authority of the federal government to temporarily or permanently prohibit hunting or fishing on any portion of the federal lands -- as has been done with various national park system units and in some other parts of the federal lands for various reasons , including public safety as well as the protection of fish or wildlife .  and section 6036 ( c ) ( 3 ) explicitly provides that the bill will not alter any of the rights of any indian tribe .  these provisions are narrow in scope but of national importance because it addresses a matter of great concern to hunters , anglers , and wildlife managers in many states .  i think they deserve broad support .  in conclusion , while this conference report is far from perfect , i think it deserves to pass and i will vote for it .  gracias .  i am sorry .  i thought this was english-only here .  i thank the gentleman .  mr. chairman , i thank my colleague for yielding time to me .  i rise today to raise serious concerns with some of the provisions in h.r. 418 that have not been thoroughly considered , in large part because the bill was not considered by our committee .  no matter what our views are on immigration , states ' rights or a national id , my colleagues should carefully review the driver 's license requirements of h.r. 418 .  simply stated , the bill imposes costly new requirements on states that simply can not be achieved in 3 years allotted by the bill ; and while states may attempt to comply , the bill 's unreasonable deadlines and inadequate funding will create confusion and frustrate the public .  congress previously recognized that states should play an integral role in implementing new driver 's license standards .  that is why the 9/11 legislation that we passed just 2 months ago directed the department of homeland security to consult with the states first and then issue appropriate regulations .  h.r. 418 repeals this sound regulatory approach and leaves the states without a voice .  one of the biggest problem areas is that the bill requires state departments of motor vehicles to verify the issuance , validity , and completeness of birth certificates with issuing agencies .  currently , birth certificates are not issued or maintained in a uniform manner .  states , counties , cities and localities all across the country issue birth certificates .  in fact , experts estimate that up to 14 , 000 jurisdictions within the united states currently issue birth certificates .  many of these jurisdictions do not have automated records but keep paper copies at the local courthouse .  even if they were to begin automated records of new births , they would still need to automate millions of preexisting birth certificates .  h.r. 418 also requires states to verify the issuance , validity and completeness of various other documents with various federal agencies that do not yet have fully automated systems in place .  these requirements will be expensive and time-consuming .  ultimately the databases will be built that will allow states to conduct rapid verification of these birth certificates and other documents ; but in most states and localities , they do not currently exist , and the experts say it will take a whole lot longer than 3 years to create them .  that is why the bill is opposed by the states .  it is opposed by the national governors association , the national conference of state legislatures and even the dmv trade association , the american association of motor vehicle administrators .  the best timeline estimate from state dmvs is that will take 10 to 12 years for all of the required automation to occur .  yet h.r. 418 requires verification within just 3 years .  in the meantime , what will happen ?  states will not be able to issue same-day driver 's licenses , the public will be frustrated , and homeland security will not be advanced .  in addition to the unworkable nature of the driver 's license provisions in this bill , i want to raise my deep concern about section 102 of this legislation .  this section provides the secretary of homeland security the authority to waive any law for the purposes of building immigration barriers along the border .  i do not understand why we need to provide the administration with unilateral authority to waive labor laws , state and local laws , environmental laws , tax codes and criminal laws .  this does not apply just in san diego .  it applies throughout the nation .  i am sad to say this bill presents a dangerous new precedent .  the federal government has never before had unilateral authority to waive child labor laws , civil rights laws , and environmental laws .  for republican members who want to rein in the unchecked authority of the federal government , they might want to carefully examine this provision , which expands it enormously .  i urge my colleagues to oppose the legislation .  mr. chairman , reserving the right to object , just so i understand , i can under this agreement be able to reserve time .  unlike the 5-minute rule , i would be able to reserve portions of my 5 minutes ?  i thank the gentleman .  mr. chairman , i withdraw my reservation of objection .  mr. chairman , i yield myself such time as i may consume .  let me just quote what the gentleman from wisconsin said in the last debate : `` the government of saudi arabia has greatly increased its effort to root out terrorism .  it has greatly increased its cooperation in intelligence matters and others with the united states. '' the facts that i read just now were within the last months .  it is simply not true .  do not believe the hype .  mr. chairman , i demand a recorded vote .  mr. chairman , when we shut our doors to the world we shut the door of democracy .  president bush wants the united states to be a leader in promoting freedom around the world , but we fail at home when we deny freedoms to those who desire the american dream .  h.r. 418 fails to reform our system .  instead , it weakens our democracy .  if you vote for this bill you are saying we do n't care if you have been persecuted because of your religion or beaten because of your gender .  stay in your own country .  you are not entitled to our freedoms .  if you vote for this legislation you are saying that the united states does n't care about federal or state laws as long as it means being able to close our border .  who cares if building a wall on our border endangers our environment ?  out of 2 , 000 plus miles along our border with mexico , you are saying that finishing 3 miles of that fenced area in southern california is so important that we should throw out the principles of our democracy and let one man have the power to waive any laws that he wants without any oversight .  are you sure that this is a democratic country ?  mr. chairman , shutting out people around the world from our democracy and throwing away the ideals of freedom that we hold so dear is no to way to be an example for the world .  we need immigration reform but this legislation is not the right answer .  i urge my colleagues to join me in opposing this legislation .  mr. speaker , why is congress approving yet another multibillion dollar spending bill when the previous 3 multibillion dollar spending bills have been misused , improperly managed , and , in some cases , downright stolen ?  a report by the special inspector general for iraq 's reconstruction has stated that nearly $ 100 million for reconstruction projects in southern iraq is missing and can not be accounted for .  these funds must be accounted for before allotting one more dollar for the war in iraq .  and where is the congressional investigation into the $ 9 billion that mysteriously disappeared from the books at the coalition provisional authority ?  why are we voting on writing another check for a mission that has been so badly botched ?  who is being held responsible for the misinformation that led us into the war in the first place ?  who is being held responsible for the troops not being equipped and armed with the billions of dollars that we have allocated to iraq ?  where is our exit strategy ?  this bill is nothing short of highway robbery , and the victims are the troops and the american people .  no more blank checks , mr. speaker .  no more wars without reason .  i will vote against the supplemental .  mr. chairman , the most troubling aspect of this bill is that related to asylum .  today 's laws for seeking asylum are the result of lessons learned after world war ii .  after the war , america reflected with shame on how this shining beacon of democracy and freedom turned its back on 1 , 000 jews who fled for their lives on the ship called the st .  louis .  we turned the st .  louis away , not even allowing it to dock in america .  it is estimated that over half of those refugees eventually died .  today , in haiti , cuba and other countries , thousands face death , religious persecution , torture and property confiscation .  this bill virtually closes the door to those who might seek asylum in america .  let us not forget the lessons of history .  i urge my colleagues to keep the doors open to those seeking justifiable refuge .  regarding driver 's licenses , the 9/11 tragedy has been referred to here on this floor referencing the terrorists who obtained driver 's licenses .  let me remind my colleagues that this bill would not affect that situation at all , as all of the terrorists were in this country legally and could have obtained driver 's licenses regardless of this law .  we should heed what florida governor jeb bush said last year when he was talking about driver 's licenses for illegal immigrants .  he said , `` we should n't allow them to come into the country to begin with , but once they 're here , what do you do ?  do you basically say that they are lepers to society , that they do not exist ?  `` he concluded by saying , `` a policy that ignores them is a policy of denial. '' i agree and i urge my colleagues to vote against this bill .  mr. chairman , my opposition to the war in iraq and criticism of the administration 's rationale for engaging our troops in this conflict have been well documented .  as u.s. casualties mount , it is my hope that the administration will craft a plan to facilitate the timely withdrawal of our forces .  for this reason , i am a cosponsor of h. con .  res. 35 which calls on the president to do so .  but in the meantime , despite these reservations , the cold , hard truth of the matter is that our soldiers are in iraq not because they choose , but because they have been ordered there .  and they are under fire every day .  we must make every possible effort to ensure that our troops return home safely to their families .  the legislation before us today provides $ 51 million for `` up-armored '' humvees which protect soldiers from anti-tank mines and armor-piercing munitions .  it appropriates $ 611 million for add-on vehicle armor kits which provide critical protection to drivers and crews against attacks from iraqi insurgents .  also included is $ 50 million for the radio jammers that are installed in our vehicles to prevent attempts by insurgents to explode remote controlled bombs and mines as our troops drive by .  this measure also provides critical increases in financial support to the families of our fallen soldiers .  h.r. 1268 increases the military death gratuity from $ 12 , 000 to $ 100 , 000 .  this benefit provides an immediate cash payment to assist survivors of deceased members of the armed services .  it also increases government subsidized life insurance benefits from $ 250 , 000 to $ 400 , 000 .  the legislation also provides crucial assistance for emergency situations overseas .  it would give $ 656 million in direct assistance for tsunami disaster relief for countries devastated by the december 26 , 2004 earthquake and tsunami .  in addition , $ 92 million in emergency funds are provided to respond to the humanitarian crisis in the darfur region of sudan where egregious ethnic cleansing has been occurring .  tens of thousands of men , women , and children have been killed during the violence and thousands more die every month in camps housing the nearly 2 million people who have fled their homes .  $ 150 million in emergency food aid , mostly for sudan and war-ravaged liberia , was included in committee .  with a recent glimmer of hope and improved chances for a resolution in the middle east , the bill provides $ 200 million for the west bank and gaza to help the forces for peace seize this opportunity .  this includes $ 50 million for road and water infrastructure improvements , $ 50 million to improve the flow of people and goods into israel , $ 24 million for trade promotion and capacity building , $ 20 million for schools and community centers , $ 16 million for democracy and rule of law programs , $ 15 million for agriculture production and marketing , and $ 13 million for health care .  mr. chairman , while i continue to have grave concerns about the president 's war in iraq , on balance this bill provides funds that will help protect our men and women under fire , gives additional help to the families of those who will never return home , helps consolidate the tentative gains in israel and the palestinian areas , and aids the peoples of other nations who face dire crises abroad .  for these reasons , i will cast my vote in favor of the measure .  mr. speaker , i ask unanimous consent to revise and extend my remarks .  mr. speaker , i rise in strong opposition of s. 5 , the so-called `` class action fairness act. '' this bill will send the majority of class action suits from state to federal courts , making it more difficult for people who have been unfairly hurt to collect compensation for their injuries .  federal courts are already overwhelmed by a large number of drug and immigration cases , and they do n't have the time or the resources to deal with complex issues of state law .  this bill has it all wrong .  instead of punishing individuals who pursue frivolous lawsuits , this bill will punish innocent people who have been wrongfully hurt .  this bill is a payoff to large companies and special interests .  it takes rights away from consumers in order to protect drug manufacturers , insurance companies , hmos and negligent doctors .  there is no accountability on their part .  it is not `` frivolous '' for an innocent person who has been harmed through no fault of their own to seek compensation for their injuries .  when a child is disabled or maimed by a preventable error , it is not frivolous to seek damages from the company responsible for the injury .  this is a bill that 's going to significantly harm small consumers who want to hold large companies accountable for defrauding them .  i urge my colleagues to vote `` no '' on s. 5 .  mr. speaker , i agree with this bill 's intent to prevent the legal system from being `` gamed '' by attorneys who lump thousands of speculative claims into a single class action lawsuit and then seek out a sympathetic state court .  any abusive or frivolous class action is a drain on the system and forces innocent defendants to settle cases rather than play judicial roulette with the risk of a huge unjustified settlement .  unfortunately , instead of narrowly focusing on such abuses , senate bill 5 completely reconfigures the judicial system , resulting in diminished corporate accountability and fundamental legal rights of individuals .  while this bill makes some improvements to limit frivolous lawsuits , it does so at a price that will make it harder for average americans to successfully pursue real claims against interests that violate their states ' consumer health , civil rights , and environmental protection laws .  this is an unnecessary tradeoff .  i voted for a democratic substitute motion which would have minimized some of these abuses .  sadly , it was defeated and , as a result , i voted against final passage .  i will continue to be open to changes that make our judicial system work better , but not at the expense of the people i represent .  it is essential that we hold accountable the forces that have so much impact on the lives of every american .  madam speaker , i thank the gentleman from wisconsin ( mr. sensenbrenner )  for yielding me time .  madam speaker , i am pleased to rise this morning in support of the bill before us .  in the two decades that i have been privileged to serve in the house , the class action measure that is before us today is the most modest litigation reform that has been debated , and it strikes in a narrow and appropriate way at an egregious abuse of justice .  the bill before us makes procedural changes only .  there are no restrictions on the substantive rights of plaintiffs .  there are no caps on damages .  there is no elimination on the rights of plaintiffs to recover .  the bill simply permits the removal to federal courts of class actions that are truly national in scope , with plaintiffs living across the nation and the large corporate defendant , even if the current diversity of citizenship rules are not strictly met .  this change is much needed .  cases that are truly national in scope are being filed as state class actions before certain favored judges who employ an almost `` anything goes '' approach that remedies virtually any controversy subject to certification as a class action .  once certification occurs , there is then a rush to settle the cases .  the lawyer who filed the case makes an offer that is hard for the corporate defendant to refuse .  he asks for large fees in the millions of dollars for himself and coupons for the plaintiff class members that he represents .  rather than go through years of expensive litigation , the defendant settles .  the judge who certified the class quickly approves the settlement .  the lawyer who filed the case gets rich .  the plaintiff class members get virtually nothing .  that is the problem that this bill is designed to address .  it permits the removal of these national cases to the federal court in the state in which the state class action has been filed .  in the federal court , the rights of plaintiffs will be more carefully observed .  any settlement involving non-cash compensation will be carefully reviewed to assure that it is fair .  under the bill , cases that are local in scope will remain in the state court where they are initially filed .  i want to commend the gentleman from virginia ( mr. goodlatte )  for the thoughtful leadership that he has provided in steering this measure to the point of passage today .  the gentleman from virginia ( mr. goodlatte )  has exhibited both foresight and patience and as chief sponsor of the bill through three congresses deserves tremendous credit for the success that we are now on the brink of achieving .  i also want to commend the gentleman from wisconsin ( mr. sensenbrenner )  for the wise course that he has followed as chairman of the house committee on the judiciary in permitting the senate to act in advance of our action today .  i want to commend our former house colleague , senator tom carper , for the outstanding work he performed in negotiating changes to the measure which resulted in 72 members of the senate voting to approve this reform .  i hope the house will also lend its support to this reform .  madam speaker , i thank the gentleman for yielding .  what about the amount-in-controversy component , the $ 5 million ?  under current law , some federal courts have determined the value for requests for injunctive relief by considering the value to each individual plaintiff .  since that value is usually less than $ 75 , 000 , these courts have kept such cases in state court .  this is sometimes known as the plaintiff 's viewpoint , defendant 's viewpoint problem .  would the chairman explain how the bill resolves this challenge ?  madam speaker , i thank the gentleman for yielding to me , and i will be pleased to provide two examples .  suppose that a california state court class action were filed against a california pharmaceutical drug company on behalf of a proposed class of 60 percent california residents and 40 percent nevada residents alleging harmful side effects attributed to a drug sold nationwide .  in such a case , it would make sense to leave the matter in federal court .  after all , the state laws that would apply in all of these cases would vary , depending on where the drug was prescribed and purchased .  as a result , allowing a single federal court to sort out such issues and handle the balance of the litigation would make sense both from added efficiency and a federalism standpoint .  now , suppose , in a second example , a checking account fee disclosure class action were filed in a nevada state court against a nevada bank located in a border city , and the class consisted of 65 percent nevada residents and 35 percent california residents who crossed the border in order to conduct transactions in the nevada bank .  in this hypothetical , it might make sense to allow that matter to proceed in state court .  it is likely that nevada banking law would apply to all of these claims , even those of the california residents , since all of the transactions occurred in the state of nevada .  there is also less likelihood that multiple actions will be filed around the country on the same subject so as to give rise to a coordinating federal multidistrict litigation proceeding .  madam speaker , i thank the gentleman for yielding .  the principles that have just been enumerated apply to another provision that i would like to discuss , the mass action provision .  under this provision , defendants will be able to remove mass actions to federal court under the same circumstances in which they will be able to remove class actions .  however , a federal court would only exercise jurisdiction over these claims that meet the $ 75 , 000 minimum .  in addition , a mass action can not be removed to federal court if it falls under one of the following four categories : number one , if all of the claims arise out of an event or occurrence that happened in the state where the action was filed and that resulted in injuries only in that state or in contiguous states ; number two , if it is the defendants who seek to have the claims joined for trial ; number three , if the claims are asserted on behalf of the general public pursuant to a state statute authorizing such an action ; and , number four , if the claims have been consolidated or coordinated for pretrial purposes only .  i would appreciate the gentleman from wisconsin clarifying how the $ 75 , 000 amount in controversy minimum would apply to assessing whether federal jurisdiction exists over a mass action , and , most importantly , explaining the intent of the sponsors with regard to the first and third exceptions .  mr. speaker , i offer a motion to commit .  i am , mr. speaker .  mr. speaker , janet huggins died last september .  she was 39 years old .  she had a 9-year-old son .  she had no personal or family history of heart problems , but she suffered a fatal heart attack just a month after she began taking a new medicine for her early-onset arthritis .  that medicine she took was merck 's anti-inflammatory drug , vioxx .  cardiologist , dr .  eric topol , and other researchers at the cleveland clinic sounded the alarm in august of 2001 .  their article in the journal of the american medical association pointed to increased occurrence of heart problems in patients taking vioxx and similar cox-ii anti-inflammatory drugs .  dr .  topol even called merck 's ceo and research director to talk about his concerns .  his calls went unanswered .  his warnings went unheeded .  instead , merck continued to sell vioxx , continued to spend $ 100 million a year on direct-to-consumer advertising , encouraging more and more americans to buy vioxx .  that is what ms. huggins did .  she was buried the same day that merck finally took vioxx off the market .  her husband monty has filed suit against merck .  his suit will be captured , along with thousands of other vioxx suits , under the mass actions provisions of s. 5 .  this bill is designed to make it more difficult for monty huggins and others to pursue their claims that companies like merck will never be held accountable .  s. 5 will make it more expensive for him and much harder for him to travel for court proceedings .  it may even dead-end monty huggins ' claim entirely .  federal courts have repeatedly refused to certify multistate class actions because they found them too complex to choose one state law over the other .  so monty huggins may arrive in federal court only to find that is the end of the line .  the bitter irony here is that vioxx claims are not really class actions at all .  here is a good example of the sort of things settled by class action lawsuits .  this ipod portable music player is all the rage .  there are some people out there who thought the batteries on these things run out too quickly .  they have filed a class action lawsuit against the manufacturer .  if they win , everybody in the class probably gets a few bucks and the whole thing is done .  that is what class action lawsuits are about .  they do not generally involve personal injuries .  they do not generally involve huge losses .  there is a world of difference , mr. speaker , between a faulty battery in this , and the death of a 39-year-old wife and mother .  perhaps the worst aspect of this bill is that it treats these suits the same .  we should strip out the whole class action , the mass action provision , but that is not realistic in this political environment .  my motion to commit prevents harm so obvious it can not be ignored by specifically exempting vioxx lawsuits .  dr .  topol at the cleveland clinic , who i mentioned earlier wrote , `` neither of the two major forces in this 5-and-a-half year affair , neither merck nor the fda , fulfilled its responsibilities to the public. '' this motion to commit offers an opportunity for someone at last to act responsibly .  if we adopt this motion to commit , monty huggins will have a fighting chance for justice .  if we do not , the u.s. house of representatives will join the list of those who betrayed the public 's trust .  mr. speaker , i have a parliamentary inquiry .  mr. speaker , i have a parliamentary inquiry .  mr. speaker , under provisions of this bill , is it not the case that all future vioxx cases are prohibited ?  mr. speaker , i demand a recorded vote .  madam speaker , i yield myself such time as i may consume .  madam speaker , with the consideration of this legislation , the majority begins their assault on our nation 's civil justice system .  today we will attempt to preempt state class actions .  next month we will take up a bankruptcy bill that massively tilts the playing field in favor of credit card companies and against ordinary consumers and workers alike .  on deck and pending are equally one-sided medical malpractice bills and asbestos bills that both cap damages and eliminate liability to protect some of the most egregious wrongdoers in america .  the majority 's assault on victims and consumers is unprecedented in its scope and stunning in its breadth .  collectively , these measures will close the courthouse doors on millions of americans harmed by intentional wrongdoing , negligence , and fraud .  and so , long after the 109th congress has forgotten , american consumers and workers will be paying the price for these special interest bills through needless injuries and uncompensated harm .  this legislation will remove class actions involving state law issues from state courts , the forum most convenient for victims of wrongdoing and with the judges most familiar with the substantive law , and this legislation will move it to the federal courts where the case will take far longer to resolve and is far less likely to be certified .  now , you do not need to take my word for it .  let us just ask big business itself .  the nation 's largest bank , citicorp admits `` the practical effect ( of the bill will ) be that many cases will never be heard .  federal judges facing overburdened dockets and ambiguities about applying state laws in a federal court , often refuse to grant standing to class action plaintiffs. '' forbes magazine writes , `` the legislation will ... ..  make it more difficult for plaintiffs to prevail , since ... ..  federal courts are ... ..  less open to considering ... ..  class action claims. '' passage of this legislation would be particularly devastating for civil rights cases and labor law cases .  as the lawyers committee for civil rights under the law explained , `` the consequences of the legislation for civil rights class actions ... ..  will be astounding and , in our view , disastrous .  redirecting state law class actions to the federal courts will choke federal court dockets and delay or foreclose the timely and effective determination of federal ( civil rights ) cases. '' since the november election we have heard a lot of talk about values , and that is fine ; but will someone during this discourse today tell me where the value is in denying senior citizens who suffered heart attacks because they took vioxx for their arthritis ?  where is the morality in preventing poor workers from joining together to obtain compensation when unscrupulous employers pay them slave-labor wages ?  where is the righteousness in telling victims of discrimination that they will have to wait years for a federal court to consider violations of their own state laws ?  if we have learned anything from the enron , tyco , firestone , and other legal debacles , it is that our citizens need more protection against wrongdoers in our society , not less .  and yet the class action bill before us takes us in precisely the opposite direction .  the house should reject this one-sided , anti-consumer and anti-civil rights legislation .  madam speaker , i reserve the balance of my time .  madam speaker , i yield myself as much time as i may consume .  the gentleman from virginia ( mr. boucher )  is a dear friend of mine , and i merely want to take one observation that he made , that this is just a procedural process and that there is no substantive changes , but i say to him , if the legal system is rigged and the rules are stacked against you , you never have to get to the substance ; you do not even get your day in court .  that is the problem with this bill .  it is a procedural process that prevents people from bringing actions in state courts , and we are sending it to the federal courts when both the federal judiciary has spoken against this measure and the state judges have spoken against this measure as well .  i think that that should be a very instructive criticism against this bill .  the proposal before us is opposed by both state and federal judiciaries .  it is opposed by the national council of state legislatures ; consumers and public interest groups , including public citizen , the consumers federation of america , the consumers union , the united states pirg ; a coalition of environmental advocates ; health advocates , including the campaign for tobacco free kids ; civil rights groups such as the alliance for justice , the leadership conference on civil rights , the national association for the advancement of colored people , and the lawyers ' committee for civil rights and labor such as the american federation of labor-congress of industrial organizations , afl-cio .  this legislation is also opposed by many of the nation 's editorial boards in the newspaper business .  a new york times editorial board just this weekend wrote this about the measure that is before the house today : `` instead of narrowly focusing on real abuses of the system , the measure reconfigures the civil justice system to achieve a significant rollback of corporate accountability and people 's rights .  the main impact of the bill , which has the sort of propagandistic title normally assigned to such laws , the class action fairness act , will be to funnel nearly all major class action lawsuits out of state courts and into already overburdened federal courts .  that will inevitably make it harder for americans to pursue legitimate claims successfully against companies that violate state consumer , health , civil rights and environmental protection laws. '' madam speaker , i reserve the balance of my time .  mr. speaker , i am pleased to yield 4 minutes to my good friend , the gentleman from massachusetts ( mr. markey )  from the committee on energy and commerce .  he has worked with us on many of these issues .  mr. speaker , i yield myself 1 minute .  i would like to respond to my good friend , the gentleman from virginia ( mr. moran )  .  first of all , i think the naacp and the civil rights groups will be eager to find out that his wisdom is superior to their experience in the civil rights movement .  what the gentleman was suggesting may have been correct a number of years ago , but i would point out to the gentleman that the federal courts more recently have not been as desirable a forum for civil rights activities .  the bank of boston case , that was 10 years ago and an anomaly .  there are not other examples of class actions where class members lost money .  no other court has made the same mistake .  i would urge that neither the gentleman nor any of us rewrite class action rules because of one mistake .  mr. speaker , i yield myself such time as i may consume .  mr. speaker , i would like to briefly describe why this substitute is the superior piece of legislation before us today .  the substitute is much better for the following reasons : civil rights carve-out .  the substitute would carve out state civil rights claims in order to make sure that civil rights plaintiffs , especially those seeking immediate injunctive relief , can have their grievances addressed in a timely manner .  believe me , this is an issue of great moment to those of us who are still prosecuting for a fair day in our nation and have civil rights laws to back us up , but we now are pleading to keep the proper forums .  for example , every state in the union has passed a law prohibiting discrimination on the basis of disability .  the language does not affect the federal jurisdiction over federal claims .  the second consideration for this is the wage-and-hour carve-out .  wage-and-hour class actions are often brought in state courts because state wage-and-hour remedies are often , i am sorry to say , more complete than the federal wage-and-hour statute ; and we have examples of that .  the third reason : we exclude non-class action cases involving physical injuries .  the measure before us applies not only to class actions , but also to mass torts .  the democratic substitute removes the mass tort language .  and then , of course , the attorney general carve-out which clarifies cases brought by state attorneys general are excluded from the provisions of the class action bill and would not be forced into federal court .  these are the major reasons why we encourage a supportive vote for the substitute to the measure that is being debated today .  mr. speaker , i reserve the balance of my time .  mr. speaker , i object to the vote on the ground that a quorum is not present and make the point of order that a quorum is not present .  once again , mr. speaker , we have before us a bill that would sweep aside generations of state laws that protect consumers .  citizens will be denied their basic right to use their own state courts to file class action lawsuits against companies -- even if there are clear violations of state labor laws or state civil rights laws .  this bill comes after a lobbying campaign costing business interests tens of millions of dollars .  well , that was money well spent .  with this sweeping legislation , corporations will have free reign to avoid responsibility for the wrongs they commit .  it is just shameful that the victims of corporate misconduct do not have the same level of influence here in the halls of congress .  let 's not forget the people who died as a result of defective tires manufactured by firestone .  what about countless individuals who died as a result of the tobacco industry 's failure to disclose the risks of cigarettes ?  well , if it is any indication of this bill 's intent -- tobacco is already celebrating this week .  stocks are up and the industry is glowing .  let me quote their take on this bill , `` the practical effect of the change could be that many cases will never be heard given how overburdened federal judges are. '' plainly that is the goal of the bill .  the goal is to ensure that legitimate plaintiffs are denied any recovery at all .  and that whatever recovery they do receive is delayed as long as possible .  i have spent decades in courtrooms and i can tell my colleagues -- from my own experience -- that justice delayed is justice denied .  the doors to the courthouse will be locked shut .  and this republican leadership is handing the key to corporate america .  with complete disregard for precedent-setting individual and class action litigation , the republican leadership is determined to destroy america 's civil justice system , eliminating protections for the poor and powerless .  this bill is a disgrace to the historic victories in courts across the country -- to expand consumer rights , protect our environment , and strengthen workers ' rights .  and there has been complete disregard for the legislative process in the house .  while we have had hearings and markups on class action legislation in the past , this bill is quite complex and very different than previous versions .  the fact that the other chamber has already approved this matter in no way justifies a `` rush to judgment '' in the house , when so many important rights are at stake .  class actions have addressed the looting of company after company by corporate insiders , whose brazen misconduct and self-dealing defrauded creditors and investors of billions of dollars , and stripped employees and retirees of their livelihood and life savings .  yet if this bill becomes law , the victims of those practices will face new obstacles in their efforts to call those executives to task .  this bill is not about protecting plaintiffs .  it 's not about protecting the public .  it 's about protecting large corporations whose conduct has been egregious .  it 's about protecting the powerful at the expense of the powerless .  and to prevent people from banding together as a class to challenge that power in the only way they can .  we must also see this bill in its proper context .  it is part of an ambitious and multi-pronged campaign by major corporations to evade their obligations to society .  under the guise of `` deregulation '' we 're watching the wholesale dismantling of health and safety standards , environmental protections , and longstanding limits on concentration of ownership within the media and other key industries .  today 's bill completes this picture .  it takes aim at the civil justice system that exists to correct the wrongs that the government can not or will not address .  i urge my colleagues to oppose this blatant effort to muzzle the courts .  this bill is but the latest in a series of assaults by those on the other side attacking the ability of individuals to seek relief from the courts .  and it is also but the latest in a series of assaults on states ' rights to provide legal remedies for harm suffered by their citizens .  we can not allow them to do it , mr. speaker .  i urge my colleagues to vote `` no . '' mr. speaker , i heard an earlier speaker refer to class actions as a game .  try telling that to the 9-year-old son of janet huggins , a 39-year-old healthy tennessee mother who took vioxx and died in september 2004 .  tell her family that the effort to protect her family is a game .  this is not a game .  this is flesh and blood , the ability to protect your family when something happens to you that you did not have anything to do with .  this bill is the vioxx protection bill .  it is the wal-mart protection bill .  it is the tyco protection bill .  it is the enron protection bill .  anyone in the state of washington who saw what enron did to us , stealing $ 1 billion , should not be voting for this bill , because this bill in many ways is the just say no bill to people who are injured by rapacious wrongdoers .  in three ways it says `` just say no '' to consumers who were hurt by enron , because in the federal courts , if you happen to be in a plaintiff 's group of multiple states and the laws are a little different in the states , do you know what the federal courts do ?  they throw out the class action .  do you want to know why the chamber of commerce is spending $ 1 billion to lobby on what seems to be a procedural issue ?  because they throw out class actions where there is any difference in states , meaning you will not be able to have a class action anywhere , anywhere , federal or state .  why is this so important ?  i liken this to right now you have two arms to protect americans , the state judicial system and the federal judicial system .  this reduces by half the resources that are available to americans to get redress when enron steals from them or when vioxx kills them .  on 9/11 , did we respond to september 11 by taking out city police officers and only having the fbi ?  on 9/11 , did we respond by not having local fire departments and only having the coast guard or army fire department ?  no .  we recognized that in our system of federalism , americans deserve the full protection , not just half the protection .  this cuts the available judicial resources in half .  why is that important ?  the second reason it just says no to injured americans is the federal courts can not handle these class actions .  they do not have enough courts and judges .  you go down and ask how long you will wait today to get into a federal court .  then add about 4 or 5 years after this bill if this bill were to come into effect .  you just say no because it takes the keys away from the courthouse .  the third reason it just says no to good american citizens is it takes from the state attorneys general their ability to protect people .  that is why the states attorneys general , republican and democrat alike , are adamantly opposed to this bill , because this bill takes cops off the beat ; attorneys generals whose job it is to protect us from what roosevelt called the `` malefactors of great wealth '' are off the beat .  mr. speaker , we should reject this bill .  mr. speaker , it is interesting to hear the distinguished gentleman from georgia mention the committee on rules , and i respect the power of the committee on rules .  the committee on rules is not a jurisdictional committee .  this bill did not go through the committee process on the senate side or on the house side .  i might also say when we talk about coupons and the amount of dollars that lawyers may receive , might i remind the body that we are talking about thousands upon thousands of plaintiffs in a class action who would never have their grievances addressed and the corporate culprit would have never been punished had it not been for this class action .  so to manipulate it to suggest that it is abused is manipulation , just that .  this did not go through the committee process .  we are avoiding the committee process .  therefore , we are stamping on democracy and this rule and this bill should be voted down enthusiastically .  mr. speaker , i thank the gentleman for the time that he has spent on this legislation .  i think we have seen this come across our desks for a number of sessions , and we have tried to work in a bipartisan manner in order to find a way to respond to some of the larger class actions that are now proceeding before us in the courts .  mr. speaker , let me start out by trying to address some of the large dilemmas that have seemingly been the underpinnings of this overhaul of a system that is not broken .  i know some two or three sessions ago we were in the midst of conversations about the asbestos lawsuits .  frankly , i believe that with a reasonable dialogue and exchange , we were nearing some sort of resolution that would have allowed that heinous series of events over the years , the asbestos poisoning for many , many workers , to be brought to a conclusion .  for some reason , those favoring class action reform want to paint with a broad brush the victims , those who have been victimized by asbestos poisoning .  even today as we are looking to reconstruct some of the older buildings in my community , we are finding an asbestos problem .  but because of the notice that was given through these class action lawsuits , we now have companies who are protecting workers who are going in trying to clean out asbestos .  we would not have had that had we had not had this asbestos crisis .  it is the same thing with tobacco .  although there has been some humor about `` do n't you know when to stop smoking , '' we know that for years and years , years and years , there was no labeling of cigarettes to suggest that they in fact caused cancer .  so the tobacco lawsuits are not in fact frivolous .  they may be high in return , but they are not frivolous .  this class action lawsuit legislation , i believe , is excessive and overreaching .  what it simply wants to do is burden federal courts without giving them any resources .  there is nothing in this legislation that increases the funding of our federal courts .  take the southern district , for example .  we are so overburdened with criminal cases , immigration cases , smuggling cases , drug cases , there is absolutely no room to orderly now prosecute or allow to proceed class action lawsuits from people who have been damaged enormously .  this legislation wants to federalize mass torts , that is thousands and thousands of people , when they realize that the compromise , for example , that was offered in the senate , the feinstein compromise , does not do anything , because what it says is you can go into state court if you can find one of the defendants of a large corporation in your state .  if you happen to be a small state or maybe some state that is not the headquarters of corporate entities , like on the east coast , for example , you will find no defendant , so you will be languishing year after year after year trying to get into federal court .  what it also does is minimizes the opportunity of those who can secure their local lawyer to get them into a state court and burdens them with the responsibility of finding some high-priced counsel that they can not afford to try to understand federal procedure law to get into the federal court .  it closes the door to the least empowered : the poor , the working class and the middle class .  what we find as well is that this legislation is much broader than is needed .  why close the door to those who are injured by the failings of products ?  why close the doors to those who are injured by the mass and unfortunate activities of a company like enron in my congressional district , penalizing thousands of workers all over america unfairly and giving them no relief , giving no relief to the pensioners who lost all of their dollars ?  mr. speaker , what we have here is a response to no crisis , a response to no problem .  frankly , i believe that if we reasonably look at this legislation , we will find that all it does is it zippers the courthouse door .  to my good friend who mentioned that civil rights can take place wherever is necessary , let me just share with you that civil rights is not a popular cause ; and , therefore , to then add it to get in line now with thousands of other cases , you can be assured that there will be a crisis .  mr. speaker , let me simply say i rise to support the substitute that has the civil rights carve-out , the wage-and-hour carve-out .  it excludes non-action cases involving physical injuries , an attorney general carve-out , the anti-secrecy language ; and in particular it does not allow companies to go offshore to avoid class action lawsuits .  mr. speaker , let me simply say this is a bill on the floor with no problem .  but i can tell you , america , you are going to have a big problem once this bill is passed , and i am saddened by the fact that time after time we come to this floor and we close out the working people , we close out the middle-class , and we close out those who need relief .  mr. speaker , i thank the gentleman for his excellent work on this very important piece of legislation .  i rise in opposition to this rule and i rise in opposition to the underlying legislation .  in the 1960s , president kennedy used to say , `` ask not what your country can do for you , but what you can do for your country. '' today , republican leaders in washington have issued a new challenge : `` ask not what your country can do for you , but what you can do for the country club. '' that is what this bill is all about .  it is protecting the country club members from the responsibility for the harm which they potentially inflict from their corporate perspectives on ordinary citizens within our society .  the class-action bill is part of an overall strategy which the republican party has put in place in order to harm consumers all across our country , to repeal the protections that have been placed upon the books for two generations that ensure that the individual in our society is given the protection which they need .  here is their strategy .  it is a simple , four-part strategy .  number one , first is the `` borrow and spend '' strategy .  that is all part of this idea that paul o'neill mentioned , the former secretary of treasury for george bush , when he said that dick cheney said to him , `` reagan proved that deficits do n't matter. '' of course , the reason they do not matter is that , as grover norquist has pointed out quite clearly , the architect of this republican strategy , the key goal has to be to starve the beast ; the beast , of course , being the federal government 's ability to help ordinary people , to help ordinary citizens , to help ordinary consumers in our country when they are being harmed .  so this idea that there is less and less money then starves the federal agencies given the responsibility for protecting the public , the federal drug administration , the consumer product safety commission ; agency after agency left with not enough resources to protect the consumer , which they were intended to do .  secondly , there is the grim reaper of regulatory relief , where the office of management and budget inside of the bush administration ensures that any regulation that is meant to protect the consumer is tied up in endless rounds of peer review and cost-benefit analysis , weighing the lives of ordinary consumers against the money that corporations might have to spend in order to make sure that their products are not defective , that they do not harm ordinary citizens across our country .  then there is stage three , the fox in the hen house .  this is where the bush administration then appoints somebody from the industry that is meant to be regulated as the head of the agency , knowing that that individual has no likelihood of actually putting on the books the kinds of protections which are needed .  then , finally , after the federal government is not capable of really protecting ordinary citizens , their safety , their health , then what they say to the citizen is , by the way , now we are going to make it almost impossible for you to go to court to protect yourself , to bring a case .  that is what this bill is all about , that final step .  you can not even as an individual partner with other people to go to court .  and here is what it says .  it says that all of these cases are going to federal court , unless a significant defendant is in fact a citizen of the state .  well , think about this .  let us go to new hampshire .  new hampshire is a perfect example .  new hampshire has a suit which it has brought against 22 oil and chemical companies because of the pollution in the state 's waterways with mtbe , a deadly , dangerous material which has harmed people all across our country , but new hampshire is the best example .  under this new law , because the principal defendant in the case is amerada hess and because it is headquartered in new york and it is the principal defendant , not only amerada hess but the other 22 companies , not only is amerada hess , this big company , and the other 22 companies who have arrived in new hampshire , polluting the state , given the relief of not having the case be held in the state of new hampshire , with new hampshire judges and new hampshire citizens , instead it is removed to the federal court , so the republicans can name judges who they know are going to be sympathetic to the companies , not the state of new hampshire , not their judges , not their people .  that is what this is all about .  it is making sure that ordinary citizens in new hampshire , whose families have been harmed , whose health is permanently ruined , can not bring a case against large corporations .  who gets the benefit of this ?  the defendant .  the defendant .  they come in from out-of-state , they pollute , they harm , they ruin the lives of people , and then the defendant says , `` i do n't want to be tried in new hampshire .  i do n't want to be tried in texas .  i do n't want to be tried in that state .  i want to go some other place. '' what about the plaintiffs ?  what about the people who have been harmed ?  what about the mothers ?  what about the children ?  what about the people who have lost their health ?  this is the final nail that the republicans are putting in the coffin of the rights of ordinary citizens to be able to protect themselves .  all of these cases should be brought in the state courts where the large corporation caused the harm , not in a federal court away from the closest people who know what is right and wrong inside of that state .  mr. speaker , vote no on this critical bill .  vote no on the rule .  vote to protect the consumers , the families , the children , the seniors in our country who the republicans are going to allow to be jeopardized by moving the cases from where they live to places where the defendants , the largest corporations , will be able to protect their own selfish self-interests .  mr. speaker , i yield myself such time as i may consume .  mr. speaker , my colleague from georgia had kind of quoted from a study implying that most of these class-action cases would remain in states , that the whole purpose of this bill is to try to move them to federal courts .  let me quote from a cbo cost estimate which says that under this bill , most class-action lawsuits would be heard in federal district court , rather than in the state court .  mr. speaker , i yield myself such time as i may consume .  mr. speaker , i would like to read a couple of cases here .  mrs. higgins  of tennessee was a 39-year-old woman who died of a sudden heart attack after taking vioxx .  she was the mother of a 9-year-old son .  when she was diagnosed with the early onset of rheumatoid arthritis , vioxx was prescribed .  she had no former cardiac problems or family history .  according to her medical records , mrs. higgins  was in otherwise excellent health ; but on september 25 , 2004 , she died of a sudden heart attack , less than a month after she started taking vioxx .  she was buried on the very day in september that merck took vioxx off the market .  on october 28 , 2004 , her husband , monty , filed a claim against merck in the superior court of new jersey , atlantic city division .  why new jersey ?  this couple is from tennessee .  because that is the state where merck is headquartered .  in an interview on `` 60 minutes , '' mr. higgins  said , `` i believe my wife would be here if merck had decided to take vioxx off the market just 1 month earlier. '' then there is richard `` dickie '' irvin of florida who was a 53-year-old former football coach and president of the athletic booster association .  he had received his college football scholarship and was inducted into the school 's football hall of fame .  he went on to play in canadian league football until suffering a career-ending injury .  in addition to coaching , he worked at a family-owned seafood shop where he was constantly moving crates of seafood .  he rarely went to see a doctor and had no major medical problems .  in april of 2001 , mr. irvin was prescribed vioxx for his football knee injury from years ago .  approximately 23 days after he began taking vioxx , mr. irvin died from a sudden , unexpected heart attack .  an autopsy revealed that his heart attack was caused by a sudden blood clot .  this is the exact type of injury that has been associated with vioxx use .  mr. irvin and his wife of 31 years had four children and three grandchildren .  i could read more cases involving vioxx , but most people in this house , mr. speaker , probably agree with me that merck should be held accountable if they knew about the harmful effects of vioxx .  the class action section of this bill , however , would allow merck and other corporate defendants to delay their day of reckoning for years and years and years ; and justice for these individuals ' families would be delayed ; and justice delayed is justice denied .  again , this bill should be defeated .  mr. speaker , i reserve the balance of my time .  mr. speaker , i yield myself such time as i may consume .  let me close by saying , this bill is not about lawyers .  it is about people , and it is about state governments and attorney generals being able to pass laws in their own states to better protect their people .  and it is ironic and it is almost kind of laughable that the majority , which has made it a point to argue on behalf of states right , is basically turning its back on what states have done to protect their people .  the previous speaker talked about making sure that the plaintiffs got what they deserved .  well , we are concerned about making sure that the plaintiffs get their day in court .  and under this bill it makes it more difficult , especially for low-wage workers , for people who are battling discrimination to be able to have their day in court .  the system clearly can be improved .  nobody is arguing that .  what i am saying here is that the bill before us does not provide the justice and the fairness that i think is appropriate .  so i would urge my colleagues to oppose this bill .  of state legislatures , february 2 , 2005 .  dear senator : on behalf of the national conference of state legislatures ( ncsl ) , i am urging you to oppose passage of s. 5 , the `` class action fairness act of 2005. '' this legislation will federalize class actions involving only state law claims .  s. 5 undermines our system of federalism , disrespects our state court system , and clearly preempts carefully crafted state judicial processes which have been in place for decades regarding the treatment of class action lawsuits .  the overall tenor of s. 5 sends a disturbing message to the american people that state court systems are somehow inferior or untrustworthy .  s. 5 amends the federal rules of civil procedure to grant federal district courts original diversity jurisdiction over any class action lawsuit where the amount in controversy exceeds $ 5 , 000 , 000 or where any plaintiff is a citizen of a different state than any defendant , or in other words , any class action lawsuit .  the effect of s. 5 on state legislatures is that state laws in the areas of consumer protection and antitrust which were passed to protect the citizens of a particular state against fraudulent or illegal activities will almost never be heard in state courts .  ironically , state courts , whose sole purpose is to interpret state laws , will be bypassed and the federal judiciary will be asked to render judgment in these cases .  the impact of s. 5 is that state processes will be preempted by federal ones which are n't necessarily better .  ncsl opposes the passage of federal legislation , such as s. 5 which preempts established state authority .  state courts have traditionally and correcdy been the repository for most class action lawsuits because state laws , not federal ones , are at issue .  congress should proceed cautiously before permitting the federal government to interfere with the authority of states to set their own laws and procedures in their own courts .  ncsl urges congress to remember that state policy choices should not be overridden without a showing of compelling national need .  we should await evidence demonstrating that states have broadly overreached or are unable to address the problems themselves .  there must be evidence of harm to interests of national scope that require a federal response , and even with such evidence , federal preemption should be limited to remedying specific problems with tailored solutions , something that s. 5 does not do .  i urge you to oppose this legislation .  please contact susan parnas frederickat the national conference of statelegislatures at 202-624-3566 or susan.frederick @ ncsl.org for further information .  sincerely , new york state senator ; and chair , february 7 , 2005 .  dear senator : our organizations are opposed to the sweepingly drawn and misleadingly named `` class action fairness act of 2005. '' this bill is patently unfair to citizens harmed by toxic spills , contaminated drinking water , polluted air and other environmental hazards involved in class action cases based on state environmental or public health laws .  s. 5 would allow corporate defendants in many pollution class actions and `` mass tort '' environmental cases to remove these kinds of state environmental matters from state court to federal court , placing the cases in a forum that could be more costly , more time-consuming , and disadvantageous to your constituents harmed by toxic pollution .  state law environmental harm cases do not belong in this legislation and we urge you to exclude such pollution cases from the class action bill .  class actions protect the public 's health and the environment by allowing people with similar injuries to join together for more efficient and cost-effective adjudication of their cases .  all too often , hazardous spills , water pollution , or other toxic contamination from a single source affects large numbers of people , not all of whom may be citizens or residents of the same state as that of the defendants who caused the harm .  in such cases , a class action lawsuit in state court based on state common law doctrines of negligence , nuisance or trespass , or upon rights and duties created by state statutes in the state where the injuries occur , is often the best way of fairly resolving these claims .  for example , thousands of families around the country are now suffering because of widespread groundwater contamination caused by the gasoline additive mtbe , which the u.s. government considers a potential human carcinogen .  according to a may , 2002 gao report , 35 states reported that they find mtbe in groundwater at least 20 percent of the time they sample for it , and 24 states said that they find it at least 60 percent of the time .  some communities and individuals have brought or soon will bring suits to recover damages for mtbe contamination and hold the polluters accountable , but under this bill , mtbe class actions or `` mass actions '' based on state law could be removed to federal court by the oil and gas companies in many of these cases .  this could not only make these cases more expensive , more time-consuming and more difficult for injured parties , but could also result in the dismissal of legitimate cases by federal judges who are unfamiliar with , or less respectful of , state-law claims .  for example , in at least one mtbe class action , a federal court dismissed the case based on oil companies ' claims that the action was barred by the federal clean air act ( even though that law contains no tort liability waiver for mtbe ) .  yet a california state court rejected a similar federal preemption argument and let the case go to a jury , which found oil refineries , fuel distributors , and others liable for damages .  these cases highlight how a state court may be more willing to uphold legitimate state law claims .  other examples of state-law in a letter to the senate last year , the u.s. judicial conference expressed their continued opposition to such broadly written class action removal legislation .  notably , their letter states that , even if congress determines that some `` significant multi-state class actions '' should be brought within the removal jurisdiction of the federal courts , congress should include certain limitations and exceptions , including for class actions `` in which plaintiff class members suffered personal injury or personal property damage within the state , as in the case of a serious environmental disaster. '' the judicial conference 's letter explains that this `` environmental harm '' exception should apply `` to all individuals who suffered personal injuries or losses to physical property , whether or not they were citizens of the state in question. '' we agree with the judicial conference that cases involving environmental harm are not even close to the type of cases that proponents of s. 5 cite when they call for reforms to the class action system .  including such cases in the bill penalizes injured parties in those cases for no reason other than to benefit the polluters .  no rationale has been offered by the bill 's supporters for including environmental cases in s. 5 's provisions .  we are unaware of any examples offered by bill supporters of environmental harm cases that represent alleged abuses of the state class actions .  more proof of the overreaching of this bill is that the so-called `` class action fairness act '' is not even limited to class action cases .  the bill contains a provision that would allow defendants to remove to federal court all environmental `` mass action '' cases involving more than 100 people -- even though these cases are not even filed as class actions .  for example , the bill would apply to cases similar to the recently concluded state-court trial in anniston , alabama , where a jury awarded damages to be paid by monsanto and solutia for injuring more than 3 , 500 people that the jury found had been exposed over many years -- with the companies ' knowledge -- to cancer-causing pcbs .  there is little doubt in the anniston case that , had s. 5 been law , the defendants would have tried to remove the case from the state court that serves the community that suffered this devastating harm .  even in the best-case scenario , s. 5 would put plaintiffs like those in anniston in the position of having to fight costly and time-consuming court battles in order to preserve their chosen forum for litigating their claims .  in any case , it would reward the kind of reckless corporate misbehavior demonstrated by monsanto and solutia by giving defendants in such cases the right to remove state-law cases to federal court over the objections of those they have injured .  the so-called `` class action fairness act '' would allow corporate polluters who harm the public 's health and welfare to exploit the availability of a federal forum whenever they perceive an advantage to doing so .  it is nothing more than an attempt to take legitimate state-court claims by injured parties out of state court at the whim of those who have committed the injury .  cases involving environmental harm and injury to the public from toxic exposure should not be subject to the bill 's provisions ; if these environmental harm cases are not excluded , we strongly urge you to vote against s. 5 .  sincerely , s. elizabeth birnbaum , vice president for government affairs , american rivers .  doug kendall , executive director , community rights counsel .  mary beth beetham , director of legislative affairs , defenders of wildlife .  sara zdeb , legislative director , friends of the earth .  anne georges , acting director of public policy , national audubon society .  karen wayland , legislative director , natural resources defense council .  tom z. collina , executive director , 20/20 vision .  linda lance , vice president for public policy , the wilderness society .  paul schwartz , national campaigns director , clean water action .  james cox , legislative counsel , earthjustice .  ken cook , executive director , environmental working group .  rick hind , legislative director , toxics campaign , greenpeace u.s. kevin s. curtis , vice president , national environmental trust .  ed hopkins , director , environmental quality programs , sierra club .  julia hathaway , legislative director , the ocean conservancy .  anna aurilio , legislative director , u.s. public interest research group .  mr. speaker , i rise in opposition to s. 5 , the so-called class action fairness act .  few of us would stand here and argue that there is too much accountability in corporate america today .  in recent years , millions of our constituents have been swindled out of their retirement savings by corporate crooks at enron , worldcom , and other companies .  for years , many unscrupulous mutual fund managers were skimming off the top of their clients ' investment funds .  drug companies put new products on the market like vioxx that they knew to be unsafe .  this bill is a windfall for companies that have profited while causing harm to others .  and no industry is in a better position to benefit than the tobacco industry .  it 's little wonder that tobacco stocks rallied at the news that the senate had passed this bill .  i 'd like to read from a wall street analyst 's view of how this bill would impact the tobacco industry .  `` flash -- senate just passed class action bill -- positive for tobacco , '' the analyst writes .  `` the senate just passed a bill 72-26 which is designed to funnel class-action suits with plaintiffs in different states out of state courts and into the federal court system , which is typically much less sympathetic to such litigation .  the practical effect of the change could be that many cases will never be heard given how overburdened federal judges are , which might help limit the number of cases. '' i only wish that the proponents of this bill would use such candid language to describe its true intent -- to make sure that legitimate cases are never heard , and to shield corporations from accountability for their actions .  the class action system is a major reason why we have safer consumer products , more honest advertising , cleaner air and drinking water , and better workplace protections than many other countries .  all of us are empowered by the right to band together and seek justice .  class actions are one of the most effective and powerful ways we have to hold people accountable for their actions .  i oppose this attempt to shut the courthouse door to people who have been wronged .  mr. speaker , i thank the gentleman for yielding me time , even though i am in opposition to his position and favor this bill .  this is not a radical bill , nor is it regressive .  in fact , it is a reasonable compromise designed to address what is an abuse of the judicial system .  that is why the washington post endorses this bill .  it is why the democratic senators from new york , california , and illinois all voted for the bill .  in fact , democratic senators representing 19 states voted for this bill in the other body .  why did they do this ?  because they believe on balance that consumers are going to be better represented in federal courts .  and this notion that somehow state courts are going to be more inclined to represent consumer interests rather than federal courts on issues like tobacco and civil rights and so on , i do not think history proves that to be the case .  i am particularly sensitive to these charges that this bill is going to inhibit civil rights actions .  clearly if we look at history , it is the federal courts that have been far more insistent upon enforcement of civil rights than state courts .  even recently in the home depot case , a gender-discrimination case , it was settled with a $ 65 million settlement , filed in federal court .  the coca-cola racial-discrimination settlement , which guaranteed each class member recovery of at least $ 38 , 000 , was achieved in federal court .  contrast that to the bank of boston case , where the depositors in boston were not even aware they were members of a plaintiff class , where a lawyer filed suit down in alabama supposedly representing their interest , and they found out when they had their bank account reduced by $ 90 ; $ 90 was taken out of the mortgage escrow account from these depositors to pay the lawyers when they were not even aware they were a member of the plaintiff 's suit , and the lawyer walks off with $ 8.25 million .  that is judicial abuse , and that is what this bill corrects .  this is a reasonable bill .  the fact is that in so many state and local courts , they do not have the resources to go through the mountains of evidence that have to be presented in class action suits .  in federal courts they are far more likely to have those resources .  they have court clerks and they can hire magistrates that can go through all of the evidence .  there has been far too much abuse where judges have certified these settlements at the tort lawyer 's request and then , the defendant has to settle for large sums of money .  that is not the way it is supposed to work .  on balance , i think the judicial system will be far more fair , responsible , and reasonable under this compromise bill ; so i would urge my colleagues , particularly on the democratic side , to support this bill .  mr. speaker , i rise in strong opposition to this legislation .  today republicans are bringing to the floor as their first major legislative action a payback to big business at the expense of consumers .  the republican agenda is to ensure that some americans do not get their day in court .  make no mistake that this class action bill before us today is an extreme bill .  it is not a compromise bill as some have claimed .  it is an extreme bill that is an injustice to consumers and a windfall for irresponsible corporations .  consumers will be hit hard by this bill , mr. speaker .  it lumps together individual personal injury cases such as those involving vioxx , which are not class action under current procedures , and forces them into the federal courts .  doing so will greatly increase the likelihood that such cases will never be heard .  when americans are injured or even killed by vioxx or celebrex or discriminated against by walmart , they may never get their day in court .  those cases that do go forward will take significantly longer because the federal courts are overburdened and unequipped for this caseload .  that is why the bill is opposed by federal judges , including the judicial conference of the united states .  special interests have even admitted that the real intent of this bill is to clog the federal courts and , therefore , stop the cases .  to irresponsible corporations , however , the class action bill is a belated valentine .  it is exactly what they have asked for .  powerful corporations will largely be immune from the accountability that currently comes from meritorious state class action cases .  for example , this bill would help shield large corporations from any accountability for enron-style shareholder fraud , for activities that violate employee rights under state law , and for telemarketing fraud targeted at the elderly .  it should come as no surprise , however , that republicans are seeking yet another way to protect irresponsible corporations .  the washington post reported that last year 's republican medical malpractice bill contained special liability protections that would have precluded consumers from suing to recover punitive damages arising for the types of injuries caused by vioxx and celebrex .  protecting big drug companies is always at the top of the republican agenda .  we saw that in the prescription drug bill under medicare .  this is yet again another example of republicans being the handmaidens of the pharmaceutical industry .  this bill also runs counter to the principles of federalism that my colleagues on the other side of the aisle claim to support .  it throws thousands of state cases into federal courts that are not equipped to adjudicate state laws .  for instance , lawsuits involving the enforcement of the state hourly wage laws , which often have greater protections than federal wage laws , would be forced into federal courts .  in fact , 46 state attorneys general on a bipartisan basis have requested an exemption so that they can continue to protect their citizens under the state consumer protection laws in state courts .  the republicans have rejected that request while democrats have incorporated it into our substitute .  democrats in our substitute support sensible approaches that weed out frivolous lawsuits but not meritorious claims .  our democratic substitute says that certain kinds of cases must always have their day in court .  physical injury cases , civil rights cases , wage and hour cases , state attorneys general cases , and others must be heard if we are to remain a nation that strives for justice for all .  president harry truman said it so well .  `` the democratic party stands for the people .  the republican party stands , and has always stood , for special interest. '' i urge my colleagues to stand up to the special interests , to support the democratic substitute , to listen , to listen to the recommendation of the federal judges and the judicial conference of the united states and oppose this extreme legislation .  mr. speaker , the class action fairness act could not be more inappropriately named , and this motion to commit shows why .  since 1999 , merck has spent over $ 100 million a year to advertise vioxx .  more than 80 million people took vioxx , and the drug generated sales of $ 2.5 billion for merck .  merck should take responsibility for the harm their products may cause .  thousands , literally thousands of american families believe they lost a loved one or suffered personal harm because vioxx was unsafe .  these families believe merck knew of the danger vioxx was causing , but allowed the drug to remain on the market anyway .  maybe they are right .  maybe they are not .  but the point is that the so-called class action fairness act does not give them a fair chance to make their case before a jury of their peers .  the class action fairness act makes it very difficult for those who feel they were harmed by drugs like vioxx from getting the justice they deserve .  we should adopt this motion to commit and pass a class action fairness act worthy of the name .  mr. speaker , i rise in opposition to s. 5 .  the sponsors of this bill call it the class action fairness act , but nothing about this bill is fair , especially for the victims of corporate wrongdoing .  this bill erects a nearly insurmountable barrier for everyday americans , who have been hurt or wronged , to have their day in court .  thanks to the so-called class action fairness act , people who have had their civil rights trampled on will no longer be able to bring their claims to state court .  it does not matter if the laws of their home state provide better civil rights protections or that it may be more convenient for the victims of discrimination to seek justice in a court where they live .  with s. 5 they must go to federal court .  the same burden is put on the backs of hourly wage workers who sue for back pay that they are owed .  these folks are struggling to put food on their family 's table , and they almost certainly can not afford the high cost of multistate litigation .  with s. 5 they , too , must bring their claims to a federal court that may not even be in their state just so that they can get the back pay that they do .  i ask all the proponents of this bill , is that their idea of fairness ?  let us be real .  s. 5 is not about reducing venue shopping .  it is not about the mythical scourge of predatory plaintiffs ' lawyers , and it is not about the fabricated economic drain of excessive jury awards .  what this bill really is about is doing a favor for unscrupulous , negligent corporations by making it harder for their victims to sue them .  it is protecting big businesses who are guilty of wrongdoing from liability .  i am a lawyer and i acknowledge that there are some members of my profession who file frivolous suits .  but if the lawyers are the ones that they claim are ruining this legal system , why are the sponsors of this bill making it harder for the victims ?  this bill makes about as much sense as locking the door of a hospital in order to lower health care costs .  kicking people out of the system does not solve the problem , and that is exactly what s. 5 does .  it penalizes the victims of wrongdoing without doing anything to improve our legal system , and it shields bad actors from having to face the consequences of their action .  where is the personal responsibility ?  that is why i oppose this bill .  i urge all of my colleagues to vote `` no '' on the final passage and to vote `` yes '' on the conyers substitute .  mr. speaker , i thank the gentleman for yielding me this time .  mr. speaker , we hear all this hoopla about these coupon settlements , but we do not hear any suggestion as to what to do about them .  there are a lot of situations where corporations are ripping people off for small amounts of money .  for example , if a person at a checkout counter calibrates the machine to just cheat one out of a few cents , what is one 's recovery in that case ?  just a few cents .  and the only way one can stop that is with a class action .  but they would suggest there is no point in bringing the class action ; as long as they did not rip them off for too much , they ought to get away with it .  furthermore , a lot of these coupon settlements are in federal courts anyway , so there is not going to be much change .  but some of these coupon cases are the only way that we can rein in corporate abuse .  but this bill just increases complications in a gratuitous way .  it took a half an hour for the proponents to explain when it is a class action and when it is not a class action .  in normal cases they file it in state court .  either they certify it or not , and then one goes forward .  there is not much complication .  but this invites mischief .  whether it is really a class action or not , remove it anyway , and let the federal courts mess around with it and mess around with it and mess around with it .  they may never get their day in court .  and if they do not certify it , what happens to one 's case ?  they may not be able to get back to state court .  so the fact that they did not certify a class action will deny one the right to even have their day in court .  this complicates venue .  they do not know where the case is going to be heard .  it could be that an injury happens in one state , they have corporations in that state involved , they have state plaintiffs , and here one has to go chasing around , trying to figure out where they are going to be .  the attorneys general across the states , 47 attorneys general in states and territories , have come out against the bill because it puts the attorneys general in the same crack .  they do not know where the case is going to be heard .  if they bring a state action in state court , they may get removed .  some of the states have better wage laws , civil rights laws , sometimes consumer protections , and if the attorneys general want to come in to protect their own citizens in their own states , they ought to have that right and not get jerked around to federal court .  finally , mr. speaker , some federal courts are more clogged up than state courts .  some in the same area , the state courts are more clogged up than the federal courts .  why do we have to always go into federal court on these cases rather than have some kind of choice ?  every time we have a criminal case , it will take preference over the civil cases .  and in some cases where we have some terrorist cases or a backlog of federal cases , one may never get to hear their case in federal court .  if we want consumers to get timely justice , we need to defeat this bill , and i hope that is what we do .  mr. speaker , i rise today to oppose this misguided legislation to limit the ability of average americans to seek redress for injury and harm caused by corporate malfeasance .  do n't be fooled by the title of this bill .  congress is not standing up for the average american under this bill .  it 's not fixing inequities in our judicial system .  it 's making those inequities worse by giving the upper hand to big corporations .  i wo n't vote for this republican-sponsored hoax .  it unfairly threatens the very people we are all elected to protect .  when the so-called party of local control makes it a top priority to move class action cases from state to federal court , there 's an ulterior motive .  do n't believe the myth my republican colleagues want to sell you .  class action suits are n't frivolous .  they allow average americans financially unable to launch a judicial battle on their own the means to seek redress for injury or death of a loved one .  they empower consumers to challenge wrongdoings by wealthy corporations who would otherwise ignore their appeal .  i do n't think that the american public would be satisfied knowing that if this bill passes , the accountability of companies like eron would be held less accountable .  and the makers of vioxx and other dangerous drugs would be held less accountable .  it is truthful , law-abiding citizens who will lose if this bill becomes law , apparently , in america today , we have government for , by , and of corporate interests and not the people .  i ask my colleagues to stand up for real people and vote against this shameful bill .  mr. speaker , the house has considered similar legislation in 1999 , 2002 , and 2003 .  on each of those occasions , i voted `` no '' -- not because i was unalterably opposed to congress acting on this subject , but because in my judgment the defects of those bills outweighed their potential benefits .  when it was announced that this bill would be considered , i hoped that the pattern would be broken and that this time i would be able to support the legislation .  and if the conyers substitute had been adopted , that would have been the case .  adoption of the substitute would have greatly improved the legislation .  it would have reaffirmed the authority and ability of each state 's attorney general to carry out his or her duties under state law .  it would have made sure that the bill would not prejudice people with complaints about violations of their civil rights .  it would have properly focused the legislation on class actions unrelated to personal injuries .  it would have added important protections for the public 's right to know about the proceedings in our courts .  and it would have made other changes that would have improved the bill .  unfortunately , the substitute was not adopted -- and i have come to the reluctant conclusion that i must vote against the bill .  that conclusion is reluctant because in several ways this bill is better -- or , more accurately , less bad -- than its predecessors .  unlike earlier versions , s. 5 would not have a retroactive effect , so it would not affect pending cases .  it also does not include a provision for immediate interlocutory appeals of denials of class action certification , or for a stay of all discovery while the appeal was pending .  and in several other ways , it differs for the better from previous versions .  however , while the bill is less bad , in my opinion it still is not good enough .  i remain unconvinced that the problem the bill purports to address is so great as to require such a sweeping remedy , and i am still concerned that in too many cases the side-effects of this treatment will be more severe than the disease .  mr. speaker , one of the most important rights we have as americans is the ability to seek redress from the courts when we believe our rights have been abridged or we have been improperly treated .  and , when a complaint arises under a state law , it is both appropriate and desirable that it be heard in state court because those are the most convenient and with the best understanding of state laws and local conditions .  of course , it is appropriate to provide for removing some state cases to federal courts .  but i think that should be more the exception than the rule , and i think this bill tends to reverse that .  i think it excessively tilts the balance between the states and the federal government so as to throw too many cases into already-overburdened federal courts -- with the predictable result that too many will be dismissed without adequate consideration of their merits .  so , while i respect those who have urged the house to pass this bill , i can not vote for it .  mr. speaker , i rise in opposition to s. 5 , the class action fairness act .  despite its name , this bill is anything but fair to the class action device that has provided redress to large numbers of american citizens who have been harmed by the same defendant or a group of defendants .  class action procedures have made it possible for injured americans to aggregate small claims that might not otherwise warrant the expense of individual litigation .  this bill before us will effectively undermine the utility , practicality , and choice the class action mechanism has offered to injured persons with legitimate claims against powerful entities .  there appear to be improvements in this bill from the bill we considered last congress ; yet there could and should be more improvements .  but the trend thus far this session is to dispense with regular order , deny committee consideration , and to leave members with 1 to 2 minutes to hurriedly voice our concerns .  i can guarantee my colleagues , having practiced law for over 20 years , that the core provisions of this bill will invite prolonged satellite litigation into ill-defined or undefined terms in this bill , clogging the federal courts and denying prompt justice to worthy claimants .  for example , where `` significant relief '' is sought against a home state defendant , the court has no jurisdiction .  what is significant and what is not significant ?  also , and worse in my judgment , no longer will a coherent description of the class be sufficient before the trial on the merit proceeds .  under the bill the judge must first know with certainty the absolute number of the plaintiff class , because whether he may or must decline to hear the case depends on whether a `` magic '' number of plaintiffs are citizens of the state where the lawsuit was filed .  there are other examples too complicated to address here in the time that we have available .  but let me just say that juxtaposed against the smattering of cases paraded by the supporters of this bill as justification for this upheaval in our justice system are countless class action lawsuits by principled attorneys and courageous plaintiffs that have exposed deliberate wrongdoing , obtained justice for american citizens , and vindicated the values of fair play and equal justice that define our society .  america is distinguished from other countries because of its legal system both criminal and civil .  is it perfect ?  no .  but the majority wages countless legislative assaults on the entire system rather than confined , deliberative , surgical repairs .  under this bill , one bad judge , we condemn all of the judges in the system .  one excessive jury award , let us overhaul the entire jury system .  one irresponsible lawyer , let us punish all lawyers .  and here let us take these actions without any committee hearings , markup , or debate .  what could be more irresponsible to our constituents ?  whatever happened to the notion that we were making our court systems convenient to people ?  in some of our states , the federal courts are far removed from the places where individual litigants live .  and what is it with the notion all of a sudden that my states rights friends believe that the federal courts and the federal government can solve every problem in our society ?  that is just simply absurd , inconsistent with any kind of consistent philosophy about federalism .  mr. speaker , i thank the gentleman very much for yielding me this additional time , and i am surprised that such an able lawyer would be unwilling to engage in a debate on his time , but i will take 30 seconds simply to rebut what the gentleman said .  in every one of those cases on the wheel of rhetoric that the gentleman put up , those that were found guilty , those who were found to be responsible , those who were found to be culpable of doing harmful things to our community admitted it , paid a fine , paid a penalty , that was approved by a judge , and that is the fact ; that the gentleman took cases of people who admitted with their actions there was wrongdoing involved .  and if they had not been caught by this system , i ask the gentleman , what system would they be caught by ?  mr. speaker , i rise today in strong opposition to the so-called `` class action fairness act. '' i have strong objections to not only to the text of the bill itself but also to the very process by which it was strong-armed by the republican leadership past the judiciary committee .  this process did not allow any opportunity for committee members to raise our objections or to work constructively to fix the major problems in this legislation .  this circumvention of regular order is being sold to us with a myriad of excuses , one of them is that the bill is a simple procedural fix for a judicial crisis with nothing controversial in it .  nothing could be further from the truth .  this bill is a federal mandate to undermine and all but kill the ability to raise class actions cases in state courts .  under this so-called `` procedural bill , '' almost every class action lawsuit would be removed from state jurisdiction and forced onto an already overburdened federal judiciary .  moving these cases to federal court will make litigation more costly , more time-consuming and less likely that victims can get their rightful day in court at all .  this bill is so preposterously far-reaching it would prevent state courts from considering class action cases that only involve state laws .  we have already added so many state cases to federal jurisdiction that if this bill passes victims will be added to the substantial backlog of federal cases and will likely find it difficult to ever have their cases heard .  it should be obvious to even the most casual observer that the intent of this bill is to prevent class action lawsuits from ever being heard .  members should make no mistake about it -- if we pass this misguided legislation , we will have effectively shut the door on civil rights , on workers rights and on anyone injured through corporate negligence .  mr. speaker , i urge my colleagues to join me in opposing one of the most destructive and far reaching civil justice measures ever considered by this body .  mr. speaker , i thank the gentleman for yielding me this time .  first , i must comment on the gentleman 's remarks that if things were so good , then why is it that we have parents of children with special needs decrying these budgets ?  why is it that we have firefighters coming to us decrying this budget ?  why are we seeing so many people saying that we have our priorities in the wrong place ?  certainly we should look at this budget resolution because it should be defeated .  even though social security privatization is the president 's number one priority , this republican budget resolution hides the cost of the harmful effects of social security privatization .  it refuses to include any details on the president 's privatization plan and it further continues to spend every single cent of the social security surplus reserve on things other than social security .  that means over the next 10 years under this budget that we have before us , $ 2.6 trillion of worker contributions that are supposed to be dedicated to social security will be spent on something other than social security .  like what ?  to pay for these tax cuts that are going principally to the wealthiest americans in this country .  even with that being done , using all the social security surplus moneys , we still have deficits never seen before in this country .  this year alone we will have the biggest deficit this country has ever seen , more than $ 400 billion .  that is more than $ 1 , 000 on the head of each and every man and woman in this country .  they are gleeful .  they believe that that is what we should do .  mr. speaker , many of us believe that we should have a plan as the salazar legislation would propose that we save every single cent of the social security surplus which this year alone the surplus in social security contributions that will not be needed to spend for benefits to social security recipients will equal $ 169 billion .  we can start by saying that $ 169 billion of social security moneys will not be spent , because this budget spends every single cent of the $ 169 billion coming in this year for social security on something other than social security .  that is why so many americans are so insecure about social security and insecure about what the president proposes to do about social security .  not more than 2 hours ago , one of the president 's cabinet secretaries , secretary elaine chao of the department of labor , said before the committee , social security is not guaranteed .  i asked the secretary , `` can you clarify ?  do you mean in the future perhaps if we do n't do something to make it stronger , it wo n't be guaranteed ?  `` she just continued to say , `` it is not guaranteed. '' that is why people today feel so insecure about what the president is proposing , especially with privatization , because he will not tell us what it will cost .  we know it could end up costing some 46 percent in benefit cuts if we privatize .  we also know that it would require massive government borrowing , some $ 5 trillion over the next 20 years , if you try to privatize the system .  where does all that money come from ?  mr. speaker , the reason people are so insecure about social security is not because the system is not there for them , it is because we have leaders talking about changing it without giving us the facts .  mr. speaker , it is time for us in our budget documents to speak to the people , to give them the facts .  this budget resolution does not do it .  we should defeat it .  mr. speaker , just a brief word about the gentleman from california 's remarks about unprecedented deficits .  the gentleman points to 9/11 , it was one of the causes ; so was the recession that occurred under the bush administration , and also policies that were adopted by this congress and the president and the tax cuts that went predominantly to the very wealthy .  when mr. greenspan was confronted with this , he said , `` i relied on the projections that most people made , '' but he was reminded he was wrong .  a lot of us here said that at the time .  i want to say now a word about this rule .  it completely ducks the issue of social security and what the costs would be if privatized .  the president said just a few hours ago , `` personal accounts do not solve the issue. '' i am glad that the president acknowledged that privatization does not solve the issue .  what he did not say is it makes it worse , far worse if it were to occur .  when we take their own figures and project them through the first 20 years if privatization were to occur , and we are going to make sure it does not , it would mean that this 2042 shortfall year , 2052 according to cbo , but take 2042 , the shortfall would occur 11 years early .  it is fiscally irresponsible .  secondly , the president said , `` i have not laid out a plan yet intentionally ; i have laid out principles. '' but they have also had briefings and endorsed plans and called them a good blueprint , and the impact would mean , it would mean there would be a deduction from social security benefits of 70 to 100 percent what would be in private accounts .  what it also means is that there would be a mammoth cut in benefits under social security , worse and worse the younger you were , $ 152 , 000 for a younger worker over their lifetime .  we know enough about these proposals that come out of the white house , come out of their briefings or words of the president to know massive debt , major benefit cuts , and they would not , for most younger workers , help but hurt .  the president also said , `` a nest egg you could call your own. '' those are his words .  no , that is not correct .  because it would be under a government managed account and most workers would have to annuitize what was left in their private accounts and there would be nothing to pass on .  no , it would not be a nest egg .  it would be , for most people , an empty egg .  mr. speaker , the budget resolution sets the priorities of the congress .  it is a moral compass for what we stand for , what we believe in .  it shows if our priorities are in the right place .  it shows whether we are going to provide for the less fortunate or if we will continue to reward the rich and the powerful at the expense of people in need .  the mundane minutia that are detailed as budget authority and outlays are actually the blueprints of our nation .  i do not like what the republicans are building .  they are creating a government without a conscience .  the republicans control the white house , they control the senate , and they control the house of representatives .  it is their agenda that determines the future direction of this country .  that agenda includes slashing medicaid , food stamps , education programs and veterans benefits .  that agenda includes protecting tax breaks for the very wealthy in this country .  that agenda also includes privatizing social security .  today , they will have an opportunity to put their vote where their rhetoric is .  as we just heard , the gentleman from colorado ( mr. salazar )  has introduced a bill that frames this issue plainly , that no payroll taxes may be diverted to privatize social security .  mr. speaker , i oppose privatization as do most if not all of my democratic colleagues .  the position of our republican friends is not quite as clear .  they say that all options are on the table and that they are open to listening to various ideas .  they talk about the impending doom facing social security , creating a crisis out of thin air .  they extol the virtues of wall street .  they are desperately trying to find a way to make social security privatization more palatable .  their problem is that the more the american people learn about privatization , the less they like it .  i believe that social security is a sacred compact between the federal government and senior citizens .  it is an insurance program , a safety net intended to keep our senior citizens out of poverty .  it has worked for 60 years .  the privatizers want to unravel that safety net .  they want to slash guaranteed benefits , run up trillions of dollars in debt and decrease the solvency of the trust fund .  that is their plan .  today we will have a chance to see if those privatizers have the courage of their convictions .  so far , we have not seen that courage , because the budget resolution before us does not include the trillions of dollars in transition costs required to privatize social security .  the republican majority claims to support the president 's privatization scheme .  they say they want to do it this congress .  but they are not willing to put it in a budget .  maybe the vote on the previous question will help them .  if you believe as i do that we must not privatize social security , then you must vote `` no '' on the previous question .  if you believe in privatizing social security , then you will vote `` yes '' on the previous question .  it is that simple .  social security does face long-term funding challenges .  everyone recognizes that .  as democrats , we stand willing to work in a bipartisan way to meet those challenges .  but we will not stand idly by and let the republican majority destroy social security in the name of saving it .  i urge my colleagues to say no to privatizing social security by voting `` no '' on the previous question .  mr. speaker , i reserve the balance of my time .  mr. speaker , i yield myself such time as i may consume .  let me just say to the gentleman from florida that we do not believe that the way to increase the solvency of social security is to decrease the solvency of social security .  everybody on our side of the aisle is prepared to work in a bipartisan way to increase the solvency of social security .  what we are objecting to is this privatization scheme .  let me also say to the gentleman , because he questioned why i said that the republican majority of this congress has a budget that will create a government without a conscience , the reason why i say that is because this budget would cut $ 5.3 billion from the department of agriculture , cutting food stamps and other programs that are vital to america 's farmers .  this budget would cut 21.4 billion from education , cutting student loans and higher education spending .  he brags about the increase in money for no child left behind , but we never properly funded no child left behind .  and our teachers and our principals and our superintendents are screaming about the fact that we have passed an unfunded mandate to them .  this bill would cut $ 20 billion , mostly from the medicaid program .  it would cut $ 270 million in spending from section 8 and other housing and homelessness programs .  it would cut money from the witness protection program , $ 103 million from transportation .  it would cut $ 798 million for veterans health care .  it would cut the earned income tax credit .  it would cut money for unemployment insurance programs .  i mean , this is why i say that this is a budget that creates a government without a conscience .  we are turning our backs on people who need our help , and i think that is wrong .  mr. speaker , i reserve the balance of my time .  mr. speaker , i object to the vote on the ground that a quorum is not present and make the point of order that a quorum is not present .  mr. speaker , i demand a recorded vote .  mr. speaker , i appreciate the gentleman 's yielding to me and very much appreciate the constructive tone of his debate .  we actually have advanced provisions for the safeguarding of social security .  this democratic party which stood so strongly in preserving surplus dollars saved social security first , walling them off , the lockbox .  we saved social security revenues for social security .  and it is the democrat members of this body who are prepared to enter discussions when going-in principles are agreed to .  those principles : there shall be no insecurity added into social security and that there should be no additional federal borrowing , no vast amounts of federal borrowing .  mr. speaker , let me thank my new york colleague for extending me the 5 minutes .  i rise in opposition to the rule because it appears to be inconsistent with all of the things that the president is talking about .  the president is talking about relieving the tax burdens of working americans , and yet there is no provision at all for the alternative minimum tax that is going to grab the middle income people with a tax that they do not deserve , and the committee on ways and means and this congress never intended that they have to carry this burden .  i am glad that the gentleman from iowa ( chairman nussle ) saw fit to put the $ 50 billion in because it is an indication that they know that a war is going on , and i only wish that they would put something in there to help those veterans that are fighting the war .  lastly , if the president is going around the country selling this concept that we ought to eliminate this social security system and set up a new system , everyone agrees that it is going to cost a lot of money to do this .  the transition is very , very costly .  it runs into trillions of dollars , and yet there is not one scintilla of evidence that the president 's legislative ideas are considered by the house in this budget .  the president had a press conference today , and he has indicated that the personal accounts , as he called them , and private accounts , as we called them , actually will not do anything to make the social security system solvent .  so , in support of the president 's position , what we are saying here in defeating the rule , give us the opportunity to bring legislation to my colleagues that would prohibit us from taking the contributions that are made to the social security fund out of that and putting it into a private fund , which the president agrees with us has nothing to do with saving social security .  as a matter of fact , he says that personal accounts will make sure that individual workers get a better deal in whatever emerges as a social security system , which means that if it is separate and just to make someone feel good because they have private investments , then come , mr. president and my fellow colleagues of the other side of the aisle , and let us talk about it by taking personal private accounts off of the table and , in a bipartisan way , help us to get something that emerges out of social security .  then , if we want to encourage incentives for savings , since the third rail that the president has grabbed is changing the income tax system , then let us work together and put incentives in the tax system that would encourage low and middle income workers to have a savings .  it just seems to me to have a budget today that excludes the real cost of the war , that punishes veterans that suffered in the war , that makes no provisions for relieving the economic pain that is going to be caused by the alternative minimum tax , and to act like the president going for 60 cities in 60 days will have no legislative impact , then let us save a lot of money and say that we can not deal with social security reform today , not because we do not have a problem , but the president is committed in making certain that we do not find a bipartisan solution .  but the president going into districts knocking democrats because they are not coming forward to work with him is inconsistent with what our president has said when he brought this subject up , and that is keep your powder dry , do not be critical because i will be coming up with a bill , and then after that come to us .  the president has changed his position three times .  first , he says there is no crisis ; and we agree with him that there is a problem .  two , he indicates that the personal accounts really are not the solution and have nothing to do with the solution of solvency .  and , three , he is now saying he wants ideas instead of coming up with what he thinks should be the solution .  it just seems to me that it is up to us to make certain that we still work for a bipartisan solution ; and if the president does not believe that his personal and our private accounts are going to help us in resolving this problem , then for god 's sake let us get on with social security and with the help of the gentleman from california ( mr. dreier )  , a personal friend of the president who listens to him , tell him we agree with the president that if it does not solve the problem , get out of the way and let us together , republicans and democrats , solve this problem .  mr. speaker , i thank the gentleman from florida ( mr. putnam )  , my colleague , for yielding me the customary 30 minutes .  mr. speaker , every day from this floor we hear our members talk about values and morals that guide our nation , but nothing reveals our true values as legislators more than how we choose to spend the american taxpayers ' money .  each decision to fund a program or not to fund another is a conscious choice that we make .  these choices have real consequences for the hardworking americans we serve , and so , really , those choices are about our values and our morality .  we , as legislators , choose to fund what is most important , what has the most value .  that is why the federal budget of the united states is a moral document .  when we establish the financial priorities of the government each year , we show the american people in black and white what and who we value most .  as the budget resolution we debate today shows with startling clarity , the majority 's priorities i think are out of step with the values of the american people .  the majority 's budget resolution throws an additional $ 106 billion in tax cuts to the nation 's wealthiest , while cutting billions in crucial funding for health care , education and housing programs ; programs that help the hardworking americans get by from day-to-day ; programs that give hope to mothers and fathers that they , too , may one day share in the american dream .  i believe this budget resolution sends the wrong message , values the wrong priorities and shortchanges too many of our hardworking taxpayers that we should , in fact , be helping .  what message are we sending about the values of this house when we cut more than $ 20 billion from medicaid , threatening the health care of millions of children , seniors and disabled americans ?  what message are we sending about the values of this house when we cut student loans , pell grants and other educational spending by more than $ 21 billion ?  what message are we sending about this house when we cut more than $ 5 billion from farm and nutrition programs , slashing the food stamp program that so many americans depend on to feed their children ?  how can we hurt all these people , cut all this funding , slash all these programs and still afford $ 106 billion in tax cuts for our wealthiest , a tax cut that balloons the deficit and shifts the financial burden to pay those taxes to our grandchildren and our children ?  that is right .  every penny we give away in this budget 's massive tax cut to the wealthy shifts the burden of those taxes to the middle class and to the working poor who can not even get unemployment benefits extended or an increase in the minimum wage out of this congress .  what will it take for this house to get its priorities in order ?  how much debt will we strap to the backs of our future generations before we get smarter ?  how much must we borrow from foreign countries to feed the majority 's insatiable appetite for economic darwinism ?  in 5 short years paying the interest , and this is so important i want to repeat this , by 2009 , the interest that we pay on the nation 's debt will cost by itself more than all the domestic , non-defense , discretionary spending combined .  that is very close by .  simply put , for every dollar we could be spending on roads and schools and putting more cops on the street , fifty cents of it will be passed on to foreign countries to finance the deepening debt with which this majority continues to encumber us .  that is on top of the debt we incurred earlier today of $ 80 billion that we are hoping the chinese will finance .  if the majority had its way our grandchildren would end up having to use those privatized social security accounts they have been pushing for the past few weeks to pay off this massive new debt that congress keeps throwing at them .  what is the problem ?  what is included in this budget is just as horrifying as what is excluded from it .  in a disingenuous attempt to conceal their own economic short-sightedness , this majority has purposely hidden the harmful effects of their social security privatization plan , a plan that could cost the taxpayers trillions over the next 10 years , from this budget resolution .  they have low-balled the cost of the war in iraq , spending only $ 50 billion over the next year , which just today we voted for $ 80 billion .  let me compliment the gentleman from iowa ( chairman nussle ) because if he had not put $ 50 billion in , there would have been nothing because the president did not include it at all in his budget .  i call on any member of the majority to stand here today and tell me we will spend just $ 50 billion and $ 50 billion alone next year .  rather than show the true cost of their budgetary unmindfulness , the majority has chosen to conceal from the public the true cost of their plans , and as they prepare to pass this resolution and further cripple the financial viability of our nation , the real knockout punch looms on the horizon .  social security privatization , while not detailed in this budget , would have disastrous , long-term , far-reaching impacts on the budget .  the plan would cut social security benefits , make solvency problems worse and require massive borrowing , mostly again from the foreign countries , to the tune of $ 4 to $ 5 trillion over the next 10 years , and we have no less authority than vice president cheney who verifies this .  in order to make certain that we are able to meet future budget obligations for the health and well-being of our children , our seniors , our veterans and disabled , we must protect social security from privatization .  therefore , at the end of this debate , i will be asking for a `` no '' vote on the previous question so that we can consider legislation by the gentleman from colorado ( mr. salazar )  , our colleague , that will prohibit the use of the social security trust fund to pay for the administration 's ill-advised private accounts plan .  whether my friends on the other side of the aisle want to admit it or not , the administration plan to divert social security payroll taxes to private accounts will cut future social security benefits and make it nearly impossible to meet the future needs of so many americans .  that is why it is so important to stop this potential hemorrhage of social security in its tracks .  the salazar bill is a good step to show the american people that we will not allow their retirement checks to be slashed to pay for private accounts .  it is time for this house to show the american people what we truly value .  this is our choice today .  will we stand with the people we represent or with the ceos , corporations and special interests that stand to gain from the tax cut and the plan to privatize social security ?  mr. speaker , i reserve the balance of my time .  i thank the gentleman from massachusetts for yielding me this time .  mr. speaker , i rise today in support of the effort to defeat the previous question .  if the previous question is defeated , my bill , h.r. 1330 , the social security trust funds protection act , will be brought before the house for debate and a vote .  my bill would ensure that social security payroll contributions can not be diverted to establish private accounts .  i know that people say that social security was not meant to be the only source of retirement income , but the sad reality is that for too many people it is the only source of retirement .  amelia valdez from pueblo , colorado , gave me this photograph about 2 weeks ago .  as she gave it to me , she looked up into my eyes with tears as she said , `` this is a photograph of franklin d. roosevelt signing the social security act in 1935 .  please hang it in your office as a reminder. '' she continued and said , `` please do not let them dismantle my only source of income. '' in rural america , social security keeps tens of thousands of people from falling into poverty .  my democratic colleagues and i are committed to keeping our promises to american workers .  we will fight to strengthen social security so that american worker gets the benefits that they were promised .  creating private accounts will only hasten the demise of social security by draining trillions of dollars from the social security trust fund .  we can not forget the lessons that we learned from enron .  a retirement fund that relies on the stock market is simply not a secure benefit .  the proposal to privatize social security would mean a 40 percent cut in benefits .  it simply does not make sense to change the social security system program so that it cuts benefits .  the first step towards saving social security is to make sure that the payroll moneys are only used to pay social security benefits .  i urge my colleagues to vote `` no '' on the previous question so that we can protect the retirement security of every american .  mr. speaker , i yield myself such time as i may consume .  mr. speaker , i rise in strong support of the resolution .  let me first pay tribute to my good friend and colleague , the gentlewoman from florida ( ms. ros-lehtinen )  for her work on this resolution , and for her outstanding leadership on our subcommittee on the middle east and central asia .  mr. speaker , the resolution before the house expresses the grave concern of the congress regarding the ongoing occupation of lebanon by syria .  mr. speaker , i first visited lebanon and syria in 1956 , almost half a century ago .  lebanon was a prosperous , free , open and democratic society .  i remember going to the bekaa valley , to the city of ba'albak , where among the ancient roman ruins shakespeare was performed on alternate nights in english and french .  since 1976 , syria has occupied lebanon with brutal force .  our resolution appropriately demands that the occupation end now .  yesterday , mr. speaker , the people of lebanon tore down gigantic billboards in lebanon that portrayed the former and current syrian dictators , mr. assad and his father .  just imagine having in the united states huge billboards of joe stalin or the ayatollahs of tehran , how we would feel about this ?  well , that is how the lebanese people felt about having these gigantic billboards pay tribute to a country which occupies their land .  as we speak , there is no syrian embassy in lebanon .  what could speak more eloquently of the colonial outlook that the syrian regime has towards lebanon ?  in colonial times , the colonial power did not have an embassy in its colony because it did not recognize it as an independent , sovereign nation .  that is precisely the attitude of syria towards lebanon today .  all of us have been inspired by what the lebanese call their `` independence '' uprising .  by passing our resolution , the congress will express its solidarity with the brave anti-syrian occupation , freedom-loving demonstrators in martyrs square in beirut .  mr. speaker , bashar assad , syria 's ruler , continues to play games with the international community .  as his speech earlier this month showed , he still believes he can ignore the international community 's demand that syria withdraw immediately and totally from lebanon .  let us not be fooled by his promises of gradual withdrawal delinked from time tables .  if you can tell a man by his friends , all you need to know about assad is that his only friend in lebanon is the terrorist gang hezbollah .  mr. speaker , syria has not only persecuted the lebanese people , arresting , abducting , torturing and killing opponents , most recently the prime minister of lebanon , it has also destroyed lebanon 's lively institutions , rendering them little more than outposts of syrian control .  these crimes have taken place on the soil of what was once the arab world 's lone democracy .  that is why it is vital that the lebanese people succeed in throwing off syrian rule and that the lebanese be allowed to conduct free and fair parliamentary elections this spring , unimpeded by the fist of syria 's military or the brutal machinations of its intelligence agents .  mr. speaker , we stand shoulder to shoulder with those who seek full restoration of sovereign , democratic rule in lebanon .  i strongly support this resolution , and urge all of my colleagues to join me in sending a message of hope to the lebanese people .  mr. speaker , i reserve the balance of my time .  mr. speaker , on that i demand the yeas and nays .  i thank the gentleman for yielding me this time .  mr. chairman , the budget is a reflection of our values and priorities as a nation .  congress should support a federal budget that will make us more competitive in the global economy , spread prosperity to more americans and reestablish fiscal discipline to ensure a better future for our children .  this budget resolution takes us in the wrong direction .  in order to cover up the president 's mismanagement of the economy and the resulting mountains of debt , the republican budget sacrifices important domestic priorities like medicaid .  this budget resolution cuts medicaid more deeply than the president 's proposal , as much as $ 20 billion over 5 years .  slashing medicaid will have a devastating impact on the most vulnerable in our society .  medicaid is the health care safety net for impoverished children , elderly and the disabled .  reductions to medicaid will cause lasting harm to current medicaid beneficiaries and make the system less viable for health care providers .  exactly who will be affected by cuts to medicaid ?  thirty-nine million low-income children and parents , including one in every five american children ; 13 million elderly and disabled individuals who are receiving acute and long-term care coverage .  this budget would set back the quality of nursing home care .  with medicaid funding half of the nation 's nursing home care , cutting or block granting the program would set back efforts at improving the quality of care provided to seniors and people with disabilities in the nation 's nursing homes .  this budget would unravel an already fraying health safety net , jeopardizing support for providers like hospitals , clinics , doctors and health plans that serve low-income people .  this budget would increase the number of uninsured which has already risen to 45 million people under the president 's watch .  sick people cost more when they are uninsured and receiving care in emergency rooms than when they are covered by medicaid .  this budget would put children at risk .  if children have less health coverage , they are more likely to compromise their ability to learn in school and to grow into healthy , contributing members of society .  cuts to medicaid will shift costs to states , increasing their already significant fiscal burdens .  cuts in block grants do not address the real challenges states are facing , medicaid enrollment increases which have occurred as a result of more people losing their health care coverage .  shifting additional costs to the states will likely drive them to cut medicaid coverage and services .  this administration has provided huge tax cuts to the highest earning households in the nation over the last few years .  now we see the rest of the plan .  to reduce or eliminate health care coverage for poor , elderly and disabled people in order to finance tax cuts for the wealthy is inequitable and not in line with our nation 's values .  mr. chairman , i rise in strong opposition of h. con .  res. 95 , the budget resolution for fiscal year 2006 .  this budget contains painful spending cuts to critical programs , continued large deficits , and a spiraling debt .  it is fiscally reckless , morally irresponsible and is a clear failure of leadership .  this budget is a sham .  it fails to include funding for many of the president 's key programs -- such as social security privatization , the war in iraq , and the cost of the alternative minimum tax .  it does not cut the deficit in half , as the administration claims .  when all omitted costs are included , it will raise the deficit by $ 2 trillion over five years .  this growing debt will be passed on to our children and grandchildren , leaving them to shoulder the burden of our fiscal irresponsibility .  this budget cuts critical programs that working families depend on , like medicaid , education , community development and veterans ' health care .  we have soldiers fighting for us in iraq , and this budget does n't even provide enough funding to pay for their health care when they return .  the budget will also endanger the health of millions of americans , by proposing a $ 1.1 billion cut to food stamps , the nation 's number one investment in nutrition and defense against hunger .  if this budget passes , we will be forcing working families to make hard choices between buying groceries and paying their bills .  the budget also spends every single penny of the $ 1.1 trillion social security trust fund .  we need to return to pay as you go budget rules , so that we can provide a solid source of funding for social security .  what is most disturbing , is that the resolution before us today is even more dangerous than the version the president sent to congress .  the budget fails to offer the specifics of the president 's budget .  it proposes large cuts in funding , but without targeting specific programs , it leaves a myriad of programs vulnerable to cuts .  i urge my colleagues to vote `` no. '' we need a plan that is fiscally responsible and will fund the programs working families depend on .  mr. chairman , i rise in support of the cbc budget , a common-sense framework that embraces our values , that focuses on fiscal discipline and that invests in our nation 's future .  to be frank , the budget that president bush presented us with is a betrayal of the trust that is placed in us as legislators .  it violates the commitments that we have made to our children , to our veterans , and to our farmers and it does so while amassing mountains of debt , that we have no means of repaying .  i stand in support of the cbc budget because it is a fiscally responsible alternative that targets the disparities that plague our communities and puts our priorities where they belong .  it lowers the astronomical budget deficit , by eliminating corporate tax loopholes and abusive tax shelters at the same time that it lowers tax cuts for individuals making more than $ 200 , 000 a year .  this adjustment would restore an estimated $ 36.3 billion in fy 2006 , including nearly $ 4 billion for deficit reduction .  we will fully fund no child left behind ; build and repair schools ; increase investment in job training and job creation programs .  we will not slash community and regional development programs , rather we will continue to invest in housing for those who need assistance .  we provide funding for child nutrition programs , community health centers , nasa research and development , amtrak , hope vi and section 8 housing programs , and housing for the disabled and the elderly .  and we keep our commitments to our nation 's farmers who are depending on us to keep the promises that we made in the 2002 farm bill .  additionally , the cbc budget allocates funding for veterans and defense above the president 's requested level , to support our troops in iraq and afghanistan , bolster our homeland security needs , and fully fund our veterans programs and benefits .  mr. chairman , i believe in fiscal responsibility .  i believe that in times of national and fiscal crisis , sacrifices need to be made .  but , i also believe that they need to be made by all americans .  it is unfair to scale back government programs that benefit hard working families in order to fund tax cuts that most benefit the wealthiest of americans .  we all need to make sacrifices , but we must also keep our priorities straight .  i believe that the cbc budget does just that .  mr. chairman , i thank the gentleman from south carolina ( mr. spratt )  for an opportunity to speak this evening , and i appreciate the work the gentleman has done to provide a balanced approach to meet our requirements in a fiscally responsible manner .  i particularly appreciate the work done by the democrats on the committee to deal with the environmental priorities of america .  i am saddened by a party-line vote that these proposals were rejected to be a part of the proposal brought forward by the majority .  this budget is stunningly out of sync with where the typical american is in terms of protecting our environment and our natural resources .  from oceans to brownfields , we have found environmental quality to be victim of the obsession of misplaced budget priorities and an obsession with more tax cuts .  in areas of clean water , every independent outside organization , and most of them within government , have identified that we have a serious problem with the nation 's aging water systems required to ensure safe drinking water ; yet the president 's budget and what we have here today reduces almost $ 700 million for water quality responsibilities .  in the land and water conservation fund , we are breaking the promise that was negotiated here in the year 2000 where the conservation trust fund was established that should by now by rights , as a result of this bipartisan , bicameral agreement be moving funds in the neighborhood of $ 2 billion for this fiscal year .  but , unfortunately , this budget would turn its back on that responsibility .  another important element is the land and water conservation fund authorized at almost $ 1 billion ; yet this budget includes only $ 147 million for actual programs to help preserve parks , forests , wildlife refuges and open space , things that touch people where they live at home , garnering broad bipartisan support .  this year the president and the republicans go even further by eliminating the land and water conservation state grants programs which have provided critical funding to states and local communities to preserve open space and develop recreation facilities .  and one of the most significant broken promises is in the area of conservation in the agriculture sector .  one of the elements that was negotiated as part of the farm bill , there were going to be investments in farm conservation ; and yet this budget takes something that is so critical to america 's farmers , particularly small and medium-sized operations , and cuts more than a half billion dollars from these vital farm bill conservation programs that unite rural america , conservation interests , people who care about natural resources .  there is currently over a $ 4 billion backlog of producers waiting to participate in these critical farm conservation programs .  it is a travesty as far as the environment is concerned ; and it is a sad , sad story for america 's farmers who deserve better .  i strongly urge the rejection of the majority proposal .  madam chairman , i move that the committee do now rise .  mr. chairman , the republican budget resolution is a body blow to oregon and the country .  i have heard from constituents , school teachers , local government officials , medical professionals , housing advocates and many others throughout the communities in my district , all with detailed stories about how this budget will have devastating impacts .  the budget cuts both ways .  first , by exploding the federal deficit , adding $ 376 billion to the national debt and spending every penny of the $ 185 billion social security trust fund surplus coming in during the year .  then , by eliminating and reducing key domestic priorities , such as cutting $ 4.3 billion of education programs , slashing $ 1.5 billion for affordable housing and development programs , and underfunding veterans ' programs by nearly $ 800 million .  how do we face both increased deficits and program cuts ?  by continuing to focus on tax cuts for those who need them the least .  this is unnecessary and , frankly , dangerous as we continue to create an abyss between the haves and have-nots in society , and are putting our financial markets on edge by borrowing trillions from foreign investors .  this is not a budget representative of the priorities and values of oregonians .  mr. speaker , the fiscal year 2006 labor , health and human services , education and related agencies appropriations is not just an underfunded bill but is harmful .  a bill which should be a stepping stone towards providing good education , employment opportunities and access to affordable health care , instead takes away important safeguards upon which oregonians and americans depend .  it is another example of how out of touch the republican leadership is with the rest of the nation .  this bill shortchanges education programs and imposes a burden on our college students .  at a time when the global economy demands a highly trained , educated workforce , we are making it more difficult for our students to succeed by cutting financial aid programs , impacting over 90 , 000 oregonians who are borrowing money to attend college .  oregonians have already been saddled with at least a $ 1 , 000 increase in college tuition over the last year .  and while there are over 55 million children in public schools nationwide and state budgets are already stretched thin , no child left behind funding is cut by $ 784 million .  students are not the only ones feeling the squeeze .  several health care programs are threatened or eliminated in the legislation .  while over 600 , 000 oregonians are without health insurance , this bill essentially eliminates many of the safety net clinics and community health centers on which uninsured people depend .  we may end up seeing more people in emergency rooms with severe conditions that could have been prevented with regular access to health care .  with over 7 million americans out of work and over 100 , 000 oregonians unemployed , the bill cuts the department of labor by $ 430 million .  without assistance the gap between the wealthy and the less fortunate will continue to widen .  americans deserve better and it is irresponsible to say that these eliminated programs and funding cuts are the only way to solve our budgetary mess .  mr. speaker , a month ago , i voted against h.r. 3010 , the labor , health and human services , education and related agencies first conference report , which failed in the house with 22 republicans also voting against the bill .  today , a similar bill with some minor tweaks to gain a few more votes for a narrow passage is before the house again .  while i am glad to see $ 90 million restored to rural health programs , the overall bill is still bad .  it is irresponsible to raid from one program to pay for another program .  this bill contains $ 1.6 billion in cuts from fy 2005 to important labor , health , social services , and education services .  it is unfortunate that republicans in congress are choosing to strip away essential safeguards for families in order to implement tax cuts benefiting the wealthiest americans .  i am voting against this bill because americans deserve better .  mr. chairman , i thank the gentleman from south carolina ( mr. spratt )  for his leadership on this budget matter .  shame , shame , shame .  i can not believe the republican budget .  our men and women that serve this country are putting their lives on the line , and what are we doing ?  cutting benefits and refusing service .  i am reminded of the words of the first president of the united states , george washington , whose words are worth repeating over and over again .  `` the willingness with which our young people are likely to serve in any war , no matter how justified , should be directly proportional as to how they perceive the veterans of earlier wars are treated and appreciated. '' the independent budget puts support by the veterans community as $ 300 billion short .  i say that president bush 's budget and the house republican bush budget should be dead on arrival .  let me repeat that .  i said that bush 's budget and the house republican budget as it relates to veterans should be dead on arrival .  on top of all of this , this budget tells the veteran 's affairs committee , which i am on , to find $ 800 million in cuts over the next 5 years for savings .  you know , the republicans practice what i call reverse robin hood , robbing from the veterans to give tax cuts to the rich .  the president keeps telling us we are at war .  well , put your money where your mouth is .  it is not you ; it is your policy .  when i say `` big dog , '' i am talking about those huge tax cuts to the rich while we cut veterans programs , programs for health care , programs for the people that need it the most .  mr. chairman , i thank the gentleman for yielding me time .  mr. chairman , i wish to speak very briefly about an aspect of fiscal responsibility , the rule called pay-as-you-go , because there is a connection between our lack of fiscal responsibility and these draconian cuts we are seeing in vital services , like the $ 20 billion that people who are poor and dependent on medicaid will be forced to endure .  our colleagues in the majority have consistently opposed democratic efforts to reinstall pay-as-you-go rules for both entitlement spending and new tax cuts .  in fact , they just denied the house the ability to vote on such a proposal offered by the gentleman from tennessee ( mr. cooper )  and the blue dogs .  these paygo reforms were put in place in the 1990s and were essential to the successful effort achieved then to balance the budget .  paygo reforms have been endorsed in their entirety by alan greenspan , but the republicans do not want them applied to tax cuts .  why ?  because doing so would require that they identify specific revenue measures , most likely spending cuts , which would provide the offsets , vital spend services being cut , such as medicaid .  so we should reinstate paygo .  we should not support this budget , that destroys so much which is a part of our health care delivery , medicaid .  madam chairman , i have some grave concerns about several provisions of this bill .  among the most important concerns to marylanders is the fact that this bill cuts clean water funding by $ 241 million from last year 's appropriated level -- bringing our financial commitment to clean water down to 1989 funding levels .  this money -- in the clean water state revolving fund -- pays for sewage system upgrades across the country .  we in maryland know how incredibly important this money is to protect the health of our people .  fifty million gallons of waste will spew from baltimore 's crumbling sewers in may .  nitrogen pollution is the most significant environmental hazard facing the chesapeake bay .  the so-called `` dead zones '' in the chesapeake bay and its tributaries ( in which there is too little oxygen to support a healthy ecosystem ) are a direct result of nutrient pollution , principally nitrogen .  in july of 2003 , data from the epa 's chesapeake bay program shows one of the largest areas of oxygen-depleted water seen since the program began monitoring 20 years ago .  the clean water act requires the environmental protection agency to issue permits for all sewage treatment plants that will protect water quality in the chesapeake bay and its tributaries , yet the epa routinely fails to include restrictions on nitrogen pollution in these permits .  the epa has not updated the standards on nitrogen pollution in almost 20 years .  we need to commit more money -- not less -- to enforce the clean water act .  no issue united the people of maryland and our region as well as the effort to `` save the bay. '' rather than fulfill the obligations of the federal government to serve these people and protect the bay , this bill reduces the federal government 's commitment to enforcing the clean water act .  we have an obligation to ensure that our estuaries nationwide are there for future generations , and to do that we must restore funding to enforce the clean water act .  mr. chairman , i thank my colleague and good friend for yielding me time .  mr. chairman , today i rise to support the congressional black caucus fiscal year 2006 budget substitute which has three main focuses .  first and foremost , it restores fiscal responsibility to the federal budget process .  secondly , it keeps our nation 's promises to our veterans and provides the equipment and materials needed to support our men and women on active duty .  thirdly , this budget funds efforts to close gaps and eliminate disparities in america 's communities and among its citizens .  we restore fiscal responsibility by closing tax loopholes and eliminating the repeal of the limitation on itemized deductions , the phase-out of personal exemptions scheduled to take place between 2006 and 2010 .  we get rid of abusive shelters and tax incentives for offshoring jobs .  this budget reduces the deficit by $ 167 billion over the house majority 's budget over the next 5 years which reduces our interest payments by $ 27 billion .  mr. chairman , our colleagues on the other side are fond of talking about supporting and respecting our troops , but they do not put their money where their mouths are .  the republican budget resolution mandates almost $ 800 million in cuts to veterans mandatory programs .  these are reductions in disability compensation , pension benefits , education benefits , and death benefits .  the president also proposes to increase fees and drug payments on veterans .  the cbc budget increases funding for veterans by $ 4.65 billion .  we restore veterans health care , enhance survivor benefits , medical and prosthetic research , long term care , and mental health care .  mr. chairman , under the issue of education , the president 's budget eliminates 48 education programs that receive $ 4.3 billion this year .  the cbc budget increases funding for education by $ 23.9 billion .  it fully funds no child left behind .  it provides $ 2.5 billion for school construction , increases vocational educational job training , increases pell grants by $ 450 million , increases head start by funding by $ 2 billion .  mr. chairman , unlike the president , we are not playing budgetary games .  we increase funding for pell grants by tapping into new revenue .  the president , on the other hand , has increased funding for pell grants by taking needed funds from programs such as the school lunch program for low-income children .  mr. chairman , there is no greater betrayal or broken promise to the american people than that which can be found in the president 's budget for rural america .  the president recommends cutting agricultural programs by $ 9 billion over 5 years , and the republican budget has suggested cutting the program by only $ 5 billion .  on the other hand , the cbc budget increases funding for programs that benefit rural communities by more than $ 3 billion .  we increase funding for agricultural issues by more than $ 300 million ; increase funding for community and resource development by more than $ 1.5 billion , community development block grants by $ 1.1 billion .  in addition , the republican budget cuts funding for 17 different community and economic development programs that provide housing , water and sewer improvements and small business loans .  mr. chairman , in this budget we maintain tax cuts for wage earners making less than $ 200 , 000 a year , and we roll back cuts on the top 2 percent of americans , and by doing so , we have saved almost $ 47 billion that we have used to invest in the human assets of this country , the american people .  mr. chairman , the congressional black caucus has carefully considered its responsibility here , and they have asked me to point out a couple of things .  in the justice department we need to put more money into three programs that were cut : first , the programs that investigate gang-related crimes ; secondly , the problems of juvenile delinquency ; and , third , prison reentry .  these are incredibly important .  and i just want to add that this budget that we are trying to replace ours with is one of the most mean-spirited documents that i have witnessed .  over 150 domestic program cuts .  the $ 81 billion for iraq was not even included in this budget , as if it was a supplemental consideration .  so i ask the members to join with us and let us have a great number of people supporting the cbc budget this year .  mr. chairman , i thank the gentlewoman for yielding me time .  as a member of the joint economic committee , i rise today to speak on the economic policies of the budget resolution .  mr. chairman , both the bush and republican budgets suffer from the same infirmities , fiscal irresponsibility and self-serving and out-of-touch priorities .  both are wholly inadequate to meet the needs of our nation and will pass along mounting deficits and debts to generations yet unborn .  first , the 5-year republican budget will result in a deficit of $ 376 billion in 2006 , $ 44 million over the president 's projection .  the republicans ' budget proposal also has many cost omissions , because they know that their deficit numbers explode after 5 years .  as such , this budget does not take into account the cost of fixing the amt , which will cost at least $ 642 billion .  it does not take into account the $ 774 billion needed to pay for the president 's much-talked about but yet unveiled social security privatization plan .  i suppose the republican budget proposal deserves a little credit for hiking its deficit projection as it at least includes $ 50 million in 2006 for the wars in afghanistan and in iraq .  the president 's budget proposal contained zero dollars .  as a matter of fact , it reported that the costs could not be known .  however , both figures are fantasy .  the realistic figure over the next 10 years , in addition to the $ 80 billion that we just passed in the supplemental , is likely to be $ 384 billion .  to pay for its misguided policies , the house budget resolution cuts nondefense discretionary spending by $ 12 billion below the amount needed in fiscal 2006 just to maintain current spending levels , and it cuts spending on mandatory domestic programs by $ 8 billion .  to add insult to injury , the republican budget provides $ 18 billion in additional tax cuts .  these misguided tax cuts will actually cost much more when the tax cuts actually expire in 2010 .  in fact , 97 percent of these tax cuts will benefit taxpayers with incomes above $ 200 , 000 .  i think most reasonable people can agree that these priorities are not america 's priorities .  while little good can be said about the bush administration 's budget , it at least provides detailed information on the programs it seeks to cut .  the house resolution shrouds its cuts in darkness , leaving the american people to wonder what vital programs will find their way to the chopping block next .  both the republican and bush budget proposals are travesties .  when the bush administration took office , the nation was experiencing record surpluses .  it has managed to turn a $ 521 billion surplus into a $ 367 billion deficit .  in contrast , the spratt alternative budget , as well as the congressional black caucus alternative budget that we will consider tomorrow , focus national spending on priorities that benefit all americans and get us on the road to economic recovery .  they do this by funding key domestic priorities which address the needs of working families while fully supporting the national defense and protection of our homeland and preserving medicaid , social security , pension programs and student loans .  let me speak particularly about the budget developed by the congressional black caucus which corrects the irresponsible fiscal and economic policies contained in the house budget resolution by supporting existing programs that are essential to closing disparities , creating opportunities and helping our citizens build their future .  it will get our country on the road to recovery , while funding meaningful national priorities for our children , for our seniors , for our veterans and for our communities .  importantly , the congressional black caucus budget supports these priorities , while also meeting our obligation to our troops in iraq and in afghanistan .  the cbc budget funds community development programs , including restoring funding to the community development block grant program and supporting increased funding for elderly and disabled housing programs .  the congressional black caucus budget will also restore funding for veterans ' health care , rather than imposing new copayments on them for essential services and prescription drugs .  importantly , the congressional black caucus budget will reduce the budget deficit by $ 167 billion during the next 5 years below the deficit that will be produced by the house budget resolution .  mr. chairman , the republican budget cuts educational , housing and health programs for our children , while bequeathing to them a public debt that has increased by $ 1.268 trillion over the last 4 years and that will exceed $ 4.6 trillion even before we begin fiscal year 2006 .  these actions are not only irresponsible , they are unconscionable .  in the end , one can only conclude that the republican budget balances itself on the backs of americans who can least afford it .  i urge the administration to reconsider its ill-conceived economic policies .  the congressional black caucus budget is the ultimate expression of our national priorities ; and our priorities must be our children , our families , our elderly and our veterans and , of course , our soldiers .  mr. chairman , i thank the gentleman from south carolina ( mr. spratt )  for presenting a budget that has a better vision for the american people , and for the gentleman 's hard work that he does for the american people .  mr. chairman , this is the third year that i have been in the congress .  there has been a similar routine every year i have been here .  we debate the budget and our side says it is a statement of our values , and we say it is a statement of who we are .  i would add one observation to that .  this is a process that tells us a great deal about whether we are who we say we are , because there is an irony that i see with my friends from the other side of the aisle .  as we move into the year and move into the holiday season , we spend a lot of time talking about shared benevolence , but they will pass a budget tomorrow that will cut $ 5 billion from food stamps , and only 2 percent of people who are eligible receive food stamps .  it is not a program filled with waste and fraud .  a lot of our friends on the other side of the aisle will talk about benevolence and their belief in families and families having strong values , and yet they will vote tomorrow night to cut child care assistance .  a lot of our friends on the other side of the aisle will talk about cutting taxes , and yet they will vote tomorrow night to raise taxes on people receiving the earned income tax credit .  and the other side of the aisle will talk about their belief in social security and their faith in that program and their refusal to touch it , and then they will cut ssi payments which are a major part of social security .  a lot of our friends on the other side of the aisle will talk about their commitment to housing , and then they will vote to eliminate one of the most effective housing programs in this country .  and finally , a lot of our friends on the other side of the aisle will talk about their commitment to children and helping families raise their children with the right values , and then they will vote to freeze or leave virtually frozen child care services and day care services .  i am not one who likes to call names , but the word `` hypocrisy '' means you say one thing and you blatantly endorse another set of practices .  this is a debate about exactly who we will ask to sacrifice in this country .  there is no question we have asked our veterans to sacrifice an enormous amount , and they belong in a category of their own ; but there is another class of americans who we also ask to sacrifice in this budget .  we ask the most vulnerable people , the people in our society who are working and living by the sweat of their brow every day .  we ask them to give up so much in this budget , and there is an irony because we have heard it said by the chairman and various other members on the other side of the aisle , we have heard it said that people want these tax cuts and they will trade these programs off for the prevalence and the prevailing of these tax cuts .  but here is the problem .  the average people that will receive the cuts that i described got a tax cut of $ 28 to $ 35 a month .  that is not an equitable trade-off ; that is not a fair trade-off .  i simply end by saying the spratt budget presents a better vision for the american people and introduces a six-letter word into this debate that we have not heard all day , a word called `` equity. '' that is what separates our approach from theirs .  mr. chairman , the cbc budget is sane , rational , logical , serious .  it recognizes the tremendous need that exists in our country to assist those 2 million people who are currently in jails and prisons and the 650 , 000 who return home every year .  therefore , it increases juvenile justice programs by $ 300 million , $ 100 million for the weed and seed drug elimination program , and $ 300 million for prisoner reentry programs , and it does not raise taxes .  it rolls back the tax breaks that were given in 2001 and 2003 to those individuals with adjusted gross incomes of more than $ 200 , 000 .  people in my community say , provide the services , do n't give to the rich .  mr. chairman , i rise in strong opposition to this budget .  the budget should encourage fiscal , personal and social responsibility at the same time it moves us further down the road to making .  opportunity real for people .  in that sense , it should reflect the values and priorities of americans .  but by deepening income inequality and raising the barriers for those working to do better , this budget does neither .  if anything , it reflects priorities that are out of step with ordinary americans .  by calling for $ 1.8 trillion in tax cuts , primarily to the wealthiest americans , the president 's budget compromises both our ability to face our most pressing challenges and strengthen the social safety net that might rescue those living in poverty .  experts estimate that over the next 75 years , the cost of the tax cuts for the top 1 percent of households alone is nearly equivalent to the shortfall in social security -- this at a time when another 1.3 million americans fell into poverty last year .  and with this budget 's cuts to medicaid , job training , veterans health care , and child care will only exacerbate those startling figures .  the decision to eviscerate medicaid by as much as $ 20 billion will leave many low-income families with nowhere to turn for medical care , and many seniors with no way to afford long-term care .  its growth in recent years is simply a reflection of its success in providing care for the thousands of americans who would otherwise have joined the ranks of the uninsured during the economic downturn .  and states are already struggling to keep up .  this year , the governor in my state of connecticut proposed increased co-payments and premiums for families receiving schip .  if the president succeeds in cutting medicaid , there will be no way for states to make up the shortfall .  we can not let medicaid fall victim to its own success .  mr. chairman , the cost of this administration 's poor decisions should not be borne by those least able to afford it .  budgets are moral documents .  they should promote , first and foremost , the common good of the nation .  and turning our backs on that now as this budget does is not only bad policy -- it is immoral .  madam chairman , i would like to inquire about how much time is remaining on both sides .  madam chairman , i would ask the chairman if he has any additional speakers .  mr. chairman , i reserve the balance of my time .  mr. chairman , i reserve the balance of my time .  mr. chairman , i wish to speak on the point of order .  mr. chairman , i want to echo my colleagues ' comments , because i think that we have an obligation .  in my opening comments , i said that i believed that this bill is about what the house of representatives and members who are part of this effort have been asked to do , and we have been asked to protect the public interest on a whole variety of measures , and , in this case , we are talking about life and death .  does it not make sense that we try this to see what is workable ?  i mean , we are not talking about in perpetuity .  am i right in my assessment of that ?  mr. speaker , the work of this subcommittee has always reflected our priorities as a nation , helping provide services that help us meet our most basic needs , health , our children 's education , our scientific research , challenges only the federal government has the ability , the capacity and the resources to help us meet .  the problem with the funding in this conference report is that it fails to meet that threshold .  worker training , funded at levels below last year .  the national institutes of health , where this subcommittee made historic progress , doubling our investment in medical research .  name the disease , childhood leukemia , alzheimer 's , parkinson 's , hiv , the work of the nih has prolonged or improved the life of every single american .  the funding level for the national institutes of health does not even meet inflation .  health professions are cut in half .  head start is funding below last year 's level .  and with the cost of a college education skyrocketing , this conference report flat funds pell grants , meaning the maximum award is exactly the same as it was last year .  funding for the low income home energy assistance program , at last year 's level , will prove disastrous for low income families .  this bill fails to invest in any of the priorities important to the american people .  and the american people are tired of the congress spending trillions in tax cuts for the wealthiest americans at the same time they are told we simply do not have the resources to invest in things that impact their daily lives .  we can make those investments , but only , only if we make them a priority .  that is what the american people want and expect from their government .  you ask any middle class family what is more important to them , tax cuts for wealthy americans , or lowering the cost of health care , home heating costs or college .  they will tell you they want something that makes a difference in their lives and their family 's lives .  vote against this conference report .  mr. speaker , to my colleague on the other side of the aisle , i just might add that this is the people 's bill .  but , unfortunately , this particular bill is not meeting the needs of the american public as has been aptly pointed out by my colleague from wisconsin .  i also might say that there has been bipartisan support in the past because together we could come together and increase the opportunity , whether it was idea , whether it was for low-income assistance , whether it was for education , and it was a rallying point on a bipartisan basis to do something for the american people .  mr. speaker , when we defeated this bill in november , it cut health research , college loans and low-income energy assistance .  it cut assistance to working families and the unemployed by almost 4 percent .  and at a time when america is falling behind competitors like china , whose economy is growing three times as fast as ours , it cut worker training .  that bill failed by a bipartisan vote of 209 to 224 .  what about the bill is so different this time that it warrants passage ?  very little .  indeed , this bill is at the same funding level , simply shifting money from one underfunded priority to another .  if anything , once you consider the additional $ 1.4 billion in cuts that the republican leadership intends to impose with a 1 percent government-wide across-the-board cut , this bill is worse .  i understand that the chairman and his staff are doing their best .  i do recognize that this bill includes many programs that the president had slated for elimination , especially in the area of education and community services block grants .  but his is an impossible mission .  he has been asked to craft a spending bill with resources that do not even allow for us to meet last year 's levels with inflation .  and why ?  and why ?  not because america can not fund these priorities .  we are the richest country in the world .  rather , it is because the republican leadership has chosen to use the funds we have for tax cuts that only impact americans earning over $ 200 , 000 per year .  i might add that 53 percent of those tax cuts will go to people who make over $ 1 million a year .  that is the real story behind this so-called budget crunch .  that is as i said in november , ask any middle class family today what is important to them , tax cuts for wealthy americans or things like lowering the cost of health care , of heating their homes this winter or sending their kids to college ?  they will tell you every time that all they want is something that makes a difference in their lives and in their family 's lives .  this bill fails the test .  i urge my colleagues to oppose it .  mr. chairman , i would like to have some time on this side , if we could have 5 minutes of the 10 minutes , if we could work that out .  yes , i am in opposition .  four minutes would be fine .  mr. chairman , could the chair give us a breakdown of the time .  mr. chairman , i will oppose this ill-advised budget proposal and i urge my colleagues to join me .  every year , we set our priorities through our budget .  the priorities in this budget are all wrong .  our priorities should focus on helping those who need help before we begin to help those who do n't .  however , although we may not all agree with these concerns , one priority which we can all agree on is that we must reduce the deficit .  incredibly , the proposal before us does absolutely nothing to accomplish this goal .  despite all the assurances i have heard from my colleagues and the administration , this legislation actually increases the deficit !  with record deficit levels , how is it possible that the majority has completely ignored fiscal responsibility ?  by passing tax givebacks , over half of which go to households earning over $ 1 million -- that 's 0.2 percent of the population .  although many of us find this appalling , unfortunately , it has become predictable behavior of the majority party .  how can we justify this fiscal recklessness to our children and grandchildren ?  how can we justify it to hard-working americans who live paycheck to paycheck , unable to save money for emergencies or even just to see the doctor ?  can we honestly look them in the eye and tell them that we are more concerned with millionaires and billionaires than with struggling middle-class americans , brave soldiers , the sick , the poor and the hungry ?  i , for one , dread the thought .  yet , that is the message this budget sends .  and , although my colleagues try to cloud its destruction with their transparent gimmicks , the message shines through crystal clear .  the resolution before us provides for total tax giveaways of $ 106 billion over five years .  every child in america knows that you must save first before you splurge .  they know that they must patiently fill their piggy banks with coins until they have enough to buy that toy they have been eyeing for weeks .  my colleagues do not seem to understand this common notion of balancing income and spending .  they continue to splurge on our national credit card , racking up astronomical bills which our children and grandchildren will be obliged to pay .  soon they will ask for their fourth credit increase in four years , to enable the continuation of this reckless abuse of hard-earned taxpayer dollars .  the pay-as-you-go rule , or paygo , would solve the issue of unlimited spending by requiring new spending to be offset in other areas of the budget .  again , common sense would dictate that tax giveaways , totaling $ 106 billion over five years , would count as new spending .  the money is being removed from the country 's revenue without replacement .  the paygo rule would essentially require us to stop and think about how we are going to pay for things before we hastily enact them and end up in this ill-fated fiscal jam .  not surprisingly , however , many of my collegues have insisted on exempting the billions of dollars in tax givebacks from the paygo rule .  they do so without an explanation of how they plan to restore the lost revenue .  there is no good reason , particularly when we are running record deficits , to reject the very successful practice we used in the 1990 's to produce record surpluses .  unlike the federal government , states are not permitted to spend without restraint .  states can not run up their credit card bills or repeatedly increase their credit limits .  yet , this budget increases the financial burden on the states .  the federal government has an agreement with the states -- we will help pay for programs which we mandate -- programs vital to america , including education , healthcare and job training .  and we have been successful in our partnership with the states , ensuring that millions of americans are able to go to school , to the doctor and to work .  however , in their spending schemes , my republican colleagues neglect our obligation to the states .  more and more , states are picking up the tab for unpaid federal bills .  at a time when states are struggling under the burden of medicare cost shifts and a growing number of uninsured , i find it particularly disturbing that the republicans have chosen to cut funding for medicaid -- a critical safety net for our most vulnerable citizens .  the republicans are specifically proposing to cut an unprecedented $ 60 billion from the program , which is the equivalent of completely eliminating the children 's health insurance program over 10 years .  these cuts would roll back health care coverage and protections for millions of americans including the elderly in nursing homes , individuals with disabilities , infants and working families .  also , hospitals , physicians and other safety net providers will face payment reductions threatening their viability -- and these reductions will mean more lost jobs in our communities .  the assault on the environment also continues , including a massive , unjustified cut to the superfund program .  the inspector general has identified , and senior epa officials have acknowledged , that in fy2003 there was a funding shortfall of $ 174.9 million , and it has been widely reported that the funding shortfall for fy2004 reached approximately $ 250 million .  this leaves dozens of highly contaminated superfund sites where cleanups are being delayed due to inadequate funding .  public health is endangered and local economic redevelopment hurt , yet this budget irresponsibly seeks to reduce cleanup funding .  these are just two examples of critical programs this budget neglects and two examples of why i will oppose this legislation and i urge my colleagues to vote no on the republican budget .  mr. chairman , i thank the gentleman for yielding me time .  mr. chairman , the republican budget that we are considering assumes funding for the community development block grant programs that for this coming year is $ 1.5 billion below last year 's level adjusted for inflation .  and while it may be reassuring to some to hear the words of the chairman of the committee on the budget tell us that they like local control of community development block grants , they seem to like it $ 1.5 billion less than they did last year .  and when they tell us that they like community development block grants so much that they are funding it more than president bush proposes , that just means they are poking it with one fist instead of with two , because his is a really draconian cut , and they have made it just a little less painful than what he proposes to do .  community development block grant is a mouthful , but in a little town like freer , texas , it is concerned with holes , the holes of abandoned septic systems where several children have drowned , and they do not have a reliable sewer system there , so they have used the community development block grant program for the health and safety of that community .  in mcallen , texas , in austin , texas , it is the principal source of funding to help with affordable housing for seniors , for those with disabilities , for poor people , to have a chance to share in rehabilitated housing , some new housing .  in many of these communities , the dollars are going to food banks , they are going to assist in a variety of social programs that are stretched and strained that municipalities could not do without community development block grant projects .  the reason we are faced with this kind of challenge , as with the other challenges in this budget , it does not have anything to do with osama bin laden ; it has to do with the decisions that were made down the street on pennsylvania avenue and that were implemented by this republican congress .  indeed , with the budget that we are considering tonight , this administration says to those who are poor , who are uninsured , essentially what leona helmsley said , that only the little people pay taxes .  well , this administration thinks that only the little people , like the folks in freer , texas , only the little people ought to bear the burden of its fiscal irresponsibility .  we have never had a more fiscally irresponsible administration than the one we have in office today , that has driven the deficit to the highest level in american history and then turns to poor people in freer , texas , to kids that are trying to get a decent education , to our veterans , and says you bear the burden .  you dig us out of this hole we dug into with your little shovels to make up for the big shovels where we shoveled out all the revenue to those at the top of the economic ladder .  it is unfair , and that is why this budget ought to be rejected .  mr. chairman , a budget says a lot about our values .  what this budget says to america 's veterans is that congress does not value your service to country .  it makes a mockery of the american value of shared sacrifice in time of war .  how does it do that ?  let me explain .  this budget says to the person sitting here safely at home who makes $ 1 million in dividend income this year that you can keep every penny of your $ 220 , 000 tax break that the house republican leadership has given you recently , every penny of that tax break .  but , on the other hand , it says to millions of america 's veterans that we are going to direct a $ 14 billion cut in veterans ' programs over the next 5 years .  this budget even goes so far as to say they have to cut $ 798 billion out of disabled veterans ' monthly pensions , low-income veterans compensation checks and veterans gi benefits , their education benefits , unless of course they want to go raise fees or , perhaps most likely , do all of those things .  where is the american value , the american family value , in those priorities ?  to a millionaire , making every dime on dividend income , you can keep your $ 220 , 000 tax cut ; but to a veteran who may be coming back from iraq , in fact a soldier today who may be tomorrow 's veteran or next year 's veteran , we are going to make you wait longer for health care in our va hospitals ; you are not going to get the care you deserve and you earned by risking your life for your country .  i hear a lot from my republican colleagues about family values .  this budget does not reflect the family values of the american family , because the american family respects the service and sacrifice of our veterans , not just with speeches on veterans day .  we are awfully good about that .  but they expect us to respect veterans every day , and this bill does not even come close to maintaining present services for health care for our veterans .  they can show their charts , how they have increased veterans funding , but the reality is it does not keep up with present services .  so , in effect , every member of this house who votes for this bill is voting for a real cut in health care services , education services and monthly disability pension checks for america 's veterans .  i think the american people , and i know america 's veterans , are going to be offended by the values and priorities of this bill .  let us not just say yes to veterans on veterans day and turn our backs on them on budget day .  sadly that is what this budget does .  mr. chairman , i urge my colleagues on both sides of the aisle to reject the values of this budget ; reject the slap in the face of millions of american veterans while coddling the wealthiest in our society , who are going to enjoy that $ 220 , 000 tax break they are making by their riskless dividend income of $ 1 million this year .  let us stand up for america 's veterans today when it counts .  they may appreciate our speeches on veterans day , but today they need our vote .  that is the value that counts .  vote no on this unfair slap in the face to america 's veterans .  mr. chairman , my colleague , the gentleman from indiana ( mr. buyer )  , may want to hide behind a fig leaf of charging demagoguery , but let us review the facts he did not refute .  fact number one , this budget will cut veterans pensions compensation and education benefits by nearly $ 800 million .  fact number two , over 5 years it will cut veterans health care by nearly $ 14 billion .  fact number three , in this same budget someone making a million dollars a year in dividend income will get to keep every penny of his $ 220 , 000 tax break .  they may call it demagoguery .  i think america 's veterans will call it wrong , wrong what they are doing to our service men , women and our veterans .  mr. chairman , if i were voting for a budget that cut veterans benefits by $ 14 billion over the next 5 years , i guess i would want to talk about the past rather than the future as well .  the difference is very clear , and it is very simple .  republicans voting for this bill say that it is okay to cut veterans health care benefits by $ 14 billion over the next 5 years .  democrats and national veterans organizations say it is wrong .  in fact , the dav , the vfw say it is a grossly inadequate budget , it is an unconscionable budget , especially at a time when america 's sons and daughters are being killed and wounded every day in iraq .  mr. chairman , a federal budget is a statement of values .  it says more about our values that any speeches , any rhetoric , any time .  sadly , this partisan budget reflects the failed values of fiscal irresponsibility .  and misplaced priorities .  it locks in massive deficits for as far as the eye can see , adding hundreds of billions of dollars to a huge national debt that will slow our nation 's economic growth , put social security benefits at risk and bury your children in a sea of red ink for the rest of their lives .  large deficits and underinvestment in education , research and health care are not prescriptions for a healthy economic future -- they are prescriptions for economic stagnation and decline .  in my opinion , this budget is immoral .  it asks the most from those who have the least and asks the least from those who have the most .  that fails the values test of every major religious faith in our society .  this budget makes it harder for millions of students to attend college by increasing the gap between college costs vs student financial aid .  this budget says to veterans , including iraqi war veterans that pensions for disabilities , compensation checks and g.i .  education benefits will be cut by $ 795 million over five years , thus making a mockery of the american principle of shared sacrifice during time of war .  14 billion over 5 years .  i would imagine that budget item wo n't be discussed by supporters of this bill in their veterans day speeches this november .  this budget says to thousands of seniors who need nursing home care under the medicaid program that you 'll just have to go without that care .  in my book , that 's not a very respectful way of honoring thy father and mother .  to the working woman i met yesterday who works hard to help troubled youth in my hometown in texas , this budget says your housing program will be cut , making it more difficult for her to find decent housing on a limited income .  yet , to the fortunate person who makes one million dollars this year on dividend income , this budget says you can keep every dime of the $ 220 , 000 tax break you have received recently .  asking seniors , students , veterans and hard-working families to sacrifice so those in the top one-tenth of one percent of income in america can keep all of their recent tax cuts does not pass the fairness test .  if this is a faith-based initiative , i would like to know on which faith it is based .  by refusing once again to require tax cuts to be paid for , my house republican colleagues are endorsing the largest deficits in american history for the third year in a row .  they have preached to us for five years the all gain , no pain budget built on the free lunch philosophy .  unfortunately , the bill collector is now calling and the deficits caused by that failed philosophy have been financed by the japanese and communist chinese who own tens of billions of our national debt and with it , the ability to wreck our american economy .  if house republican leaders want to preach fiscal responsibility to individuals by toughening our bankruptcy law , then they had better start practicing what they preach .  it is ironic that those who are condemning the personal debt of citizens have been the architects of three consecutive years of the largest federal deficits in american history .  burdening america 's middle class with greater debt and under investing in education and health care for working families is neither fair nor fiscally responsible .  vote no on this budget .  we can do much better , and the american people and our children deserve much better .  mr. chairman , i thank the gentleman for yielding me time .  mr. chairman , i rise in opposition to the budget resolution and in support of the democratic substitute .  in the last 3 years , the republican congress has enacted three tax cuts , resulting in the three largest deficits in history , all the while on top of the record $ 400-plus billion deficits and $ 2.4 trillion of additional debt .  this budget does not account for the $ 300 billion of the iraqi-afghanistan war , the $ 800 billion for the prescription drug benefit they passed , and the $ 1.9 trillion needed to privatize social security .  if this is an example of what a conservative philosophy is , we can not afford this fiscal mess any more , and the one thing we can always say about the republican budget is we will be forever in your debt .  the cbo , the congressional budget office , has attested to all of these figures , but none of them are honestly reflected in this resolution .  but while leaving a sea of red ink for future generations , what does this budget do to the middle class , who are facing rises costs in health care and college tuition ?  this budget makes it all the more difficult for the middle class to afford their health care and college education .  this budget cuts the health care professional training by $ 300 million , it cuts community health by $ 289 million , it cuts extended health care facilities for veterans by $ 105 million , and it eliminates the preventive health care block grants .  it also underfunds the national institutes of health and maternal and child health care block grants .  it is a fascinating approach to investing in america 's future .  who knew when george bush declared he was against nation building , it was america he was talking about ?  we need a new direction and a new set of economic policies to put the middle class families and their economic interests at the heart of our economic policies .  to think that the policies or the stewardship of the republican congress over the last 4 years has led to $ 2.4 trillion in additional debt , three consecutive years of the largest deficits in the history of the country , and all under the rubric of being a conservative , it is a fascinating approach , and all the while we are cutting health care , investments in america , cutting college tuition assistance to middle class families , opening doors to their future , it is a fascinating approach nobody has ever really thought of as a way to build america 's future as one that is brighter .  mr. chairman , the proposed reductions in medicaid under this budget resolution plan are unacceptable .  for 40 years medicaid has always been a crucial support system for low-income individuals .  medicaid has made health care available to millions of americans who have no other access to health care .  the budget resolution will require $ 14- $ 20 billion in cuts from the program over the next five years and it will almost certainly lead to changes to state funding rules , administrative payment cuts , and prescription drug payment changes .  this comes at a time when poverty is up , wages are down , and the number of uninsured americans is at a record in our nation 's history .  the medicaid program serves nearly 50 million americans .  as people lost jobs and income during the recent economic downturn , medicaid enrollment increased by nearly one-third .  the decreasing number of those who receive health care benefits through employment adds additional burdens to the medicaid system .  states and local governments rely on federal assistance to help provide a safety-net to these individuals .  any cuts to the medicaid program will shift the burden entirely onto state and local governments that are already straining to meet increasing demands on the program and severe budget pressures of their own .  in many states , medicaid costs exceed education costs .  in california , our medicaid program , medi-cal , matches every dollar of federal funding with a dollar in state funding .  this shared commitment is critical since the state receives $ 20 billion in federal funding .  reducing federal medicaid funding to states at a time of rising health care costs , increased numbers of uninsured , and states ' increasing difficulties in paying their share of medicaid costs , is bound to force states to reduce coverage and increase the numbers of uninsured .  uninsured patients without access to care will instead seek treatment in emergency rooms , further burdening an already overtaxed system .  the medicaid program is not only critical for low-income individuals , but it 's also fundamental to the operation of california 's safety-net hospitals .  the president 's budget calls for eliminating the use of intergovernmental transfers for hospital funding .  this means there will be at least $ 11.9 billion in direct cuts to safety-net providers nationwide .  many states rely on igts to fund their medicaid budgets .  the low-income and uninsured rely on these hospitals to receive access to needed health care services .  without the continuation of federal medicaid funds targeted to safety net hospitals , millions of californians will not have access to necessary health care services .  this budget resolution advances this march to folly for so many americans and that 's why 242 national groups and 785 state groups , including the national governors association and the national association of counties oppose changes in medicaid .  we have an obligation to care for the less fortunate , and the congress should not be cutting critical health care and other services from those in need .  rather , we should maintain our partnership with the states to ensure that medicaid benefits remain available for the most vulnerable in our society .  i urge all my colleagues in the house to oppose the budget resolution .  mr. speaker , i rise in opposition to h.r. 3010 , the fiscal year 2006 appropriations act for the departments of labor , health and human services and education .  h.r. 3010 severely cuts education , health care , and human services that are crucial to north carolina and to the country .  as the only former state schools chief serving in congress , i know firsthand the devastating effects that these education cuts will have .  at a time when we are asking our schools to do more than ever , h.r. 3010 cuts no child left behind funding by $ 784 million below last year 's level and makes it impossible for our schools to meet high standards of accountability .  these cuts will destroy the morale of our teachers , parents and students .  america 's working families are struggling to pay record costs for college costs for college tuition and expenses .  last november , president bush made a campaign promise to increase funding for pell grants and invest in higher education .  unfortunately , this bill freezes pell grants and other student financial aid programs for the fourth year in a row , even though college costs have increased by 34 percent since 2001 .  america needs a highly trained and educated workforce to compete in the global marketplace of the 21st century , but h.r. 3010 slashes funding for education at all levels and strains school budgets .  the failure of h.r. 3010 to represent the values of the american people extends beyond the walls of the classroom .  h.r. 3010 slashes funding for community health centers that assist the almost 46 million uninsured americans , and underfunds the centers for disease control as we face the possibility of a flu pandemic .  and as winter approaches with expected record prices to heat their homes , h.r. 3010 fails to increase funding for liheap home heating assistance , which helps keep the heat on for low-income seniors and children .  mr. speaker , h.r. 3010 fails to represent the priorities of the american people .  i urge my colleagues to vote against this bad bill and restore funding for essential services for our families .  mr. chairman , as the chairman is aware , i have raised concerns about the plans to build a new usgs laboratory in santa cruz .  actually i am thrilled to have usgs moving into my district , but the usgs will benefit greatly from the synergy of other local marine science facilities in the area , including the university of california 's long marine lab and the united states government 's national marine fisheries service lab .  with usgs collocated near these other facilities , i believe the united states will have the best marine science information anywhere .  but in the development of the plans for the lab , we run into contradictory budget numbers and laboratory configurations that have dogged final approval for getting this project off the ground , and it has really been a problem .  and i appreciate your consideration of being willing to work with me to facilitate the meeting of the principals involved in this project and resolve some of these questions once and for all .  mr. chairman , i rise to engage in a colloquy with the distinguished gentleman from texas ( mr. bonilla )  , chairman of the subcommittee .  i want to thank the chairman and the gentlewoman from connecticut ( ms. delauro )  , ranking member , for their work on this fiscal year 2006 agriculture appropriations bill .  i appreciate what they have done with what they have had to work with .  i also want to thank the professional staff : martin , maureen , leslie , tom , and martha .  they have done a tremendous job in putting together a balanced bill .  mr. chairman , under our tight budget constraints , we are happy to see that the usda csrees integrated programs , such as the section 406 organic transition program , that were moved into the national research initiative are directed to be funded at last year 's levels .  as a point of clarification , i would like to verify my understanding that the committee 's intent is that the organic transition program , although proposed to be funded through the national research initiative , will continue to be managed , as it was in fiscal year 2004 and fiscal year 2005 , as part of the integrated organic program .  specifically , that the request for proposals will continue to be issued jointly with that of the organic research initiative under the management of usda csrees staff , including the organic national program leader .  mr. chairman , reclaiming my time , i thank the chairman for that clarification , and i appreciate the work he has done .  mr. chairman , i thank my colleague from south carolina , our ranking member on the committee on the budget for yielding me time .  mr. chairman , i wish i had enough time to respond to the majority leader 's problems with this budget , but , in all honesty , the war on terror , we just passed the supplemental that was not part of this budget , and most of us , in fact i voted for that supplemental because it was the war on terror .  but i rise to oppose the drastic cuts in medicaid in this budget resolution .  medicaid is not the problem child of our health care system and should not take the fall for this administration 's inability to balance the budget .  medicaid 's cost per capita growth is lower than medicare or even private insurance , despite the fact that medicaid has absorbed an increased beneficiary population due to gaps in medicare coverage , an economic downturn and the decline of employer-sponsored health insurance .  medicaid is a success story in this country , not a program that belongs on the federal chopping block .  as a member of the committee on energy and commerce , i can not support this budget resolution instruction to my committee to cut $ 20 billion outs of medicaid .  the robust medicaid program is critical for the health care delivery in my home state of texas .  forty-five percent of all infants born in texas are covered by medicaid , 45 percent .  nearly 50 percent of all children receiving care in our children 's hospitals are medicaid beneficiaries .  medicaid is the single-largest health insurer for our nation 's children .  how can we cut the most vulnerable in our society , our children , and still consider ourselves looking out for the least of this society ?  to paraphrase the bible , let us not suffer the little children .  that is not our job here in this congress .  if congress goes forward with these ill-advised medicaid cuts , the states will be left holding the bag and their only option is to further cut the benefits .  mr. chairman , 45 million americans currently are uninsured .  it makes no sense to slash medicaid spending , which will virtually guarantee an increase in the number of uninsured in our country .  medicaid cuts will not better our bottom line .  it will only make our problems worse .  madam chairman , today are considering the interior appropriations bill , which provides federal funding for our national parks , as well as the environmental protection agency .  i agree with the assessment of our ranking member , mr. obey , that this subcommittee has done good work with a difficult allocation .  i would have preferred more resources devoted to important environmental , land management , and land conservation programs .  as this bill moves forward , i hope to work with the subcommittee to provide epa funding for a much-needed study on air toxics in east harris county , which lies in the district i represent .  the houston chronicle recently completed a five-part series titled `` in harm 's way '' that investigated air toxics in these `` fence-line '' communities near industrial facilities .  in particular , the series noted that the texas commission on environmental quality found that folks residing in some of houston 's east end neighborhoods experience higher levels of potentially carcinogenic compounds than other areas .  for many years , residents have had concerns and questions about the quality of the air in houston 's east end , the potential relationship to local industry , and the potential health effects on families .  while it came to few conclusions about health impacts of air toxics in houston , the chronicle series raised an alarm and confirmed that there is a pressing need for a comprehensive air toxics risk assessment to properly identify any adverse health effects and their possible relationship to local industry .  with support from the epa , the city of houston plans to utilize methods from the epa 's national urban toxics program , which has proven successful in other cities with air quality issues .  the city of houston , partnering with the university of texas school of public health , is already working to characterize the science and weigh the evidence on health effects .  federal funding would broaden the scope of these efforts to ensure that we can include the full range of risk assessment activities in our efforts to improve the air in houston .  the folks in fence-line communities are often the workers who produce many of the essential energy and petrochemical products we all use everyday , and they deserve accurate information about their environment .  i look forward to working with the epa on this effort and hope that the appropriations committee will see it fit to include this critical funding during conference negotiations on this legislation .  mr. chairman , i rise today to oppose the republican majority 's ill-sighted budget resolution .  this budget goes beyond bad all the way to dangerous .  it 's dangerous for our country , and it 's dangerous for florida .  this budget cuts the cops program by 96 percent , a program which has put over 7 , 000 police officers on florida streets .  their budget cuts more than $ 40 million from homeland security formula grants in the state of florida alone .  the president is clearly unaware there is more to defending our homeland than invading foreign countries .  but the addled decision-making in the republican budget does n't stop there .  the majority is proposing to decimate countless invaluable social welfare programs from medicaid to head start and even start .  it cuts almost $ 200 million in funding for florida housing , employment counseling , transitional assistance , and small business loans .  this budget also includes significant cuts to veterans ' health care .  what a great message to send to our troops : thanks for serving your country , but now you 're on your own .  the republican budget also fails our nation 's youth .  the budget cuts trio funding by over $ 700 , 000 in my district , and over $ 10 million just in the state of florida .  these costs will result in a loss of over 11 , 000 students to the trio program in the state of florida .  without these programs , these students will not make it to college .  this is not a prediction , it 's a fact .  i meet with representatives from various organizations in my district every day .  yesterday , i met with 31 people from different types of organizations .  every one of them told me their programs are being cut , and they do n't know how they are going to survive because it is going to affect their programs ranging from children to the elderly to people without housing .  i 've met with local officials telling me the same thing .  these budget cuts are forcing them to seek alternative means of revenue .  in other words , taxes .  i do n't know if citizens will be taxed here in washington or in ft .  pierce or riviera beach , but somewhere along the line we are going to have to learn to share the responsibility for giving our communities the support they need .  where will all this money supposedly trimmed from the national budget go ?  well , clearly not to balance the budget or solve the federal deficit crisis .  the republican budget will result in a spending deficit of $ 376 billion in 2006 alone .  unbelievably , this figure does not include the costs of several ill-conceived republican initiatives such as the costs of privatizing social security or the president 's war in iraq .  we have all heard president bush tout his grand scheme to privatize social security , yet not only has he put forth no coherent plan to do so , but he has failed to include the financial requirements of such a plan .  vice president cheney has suggested `` transition costs '' of up to $ 2 trillion or more .  how can this cost not be included in any budget proposal ?  but there are alternatives .  both the congressional black caucus and representative spratt have suggested sane alternatives to the republican madness .  both of these budgets represent an approach to meeting the needs of regular americans while maintaining the fiscal responsibility this nation needs .  mr. chairman , i was going to stand here and tell you that the republicans are balancing the budget on the backs of the poor , but they are not balancing this budget on anyone 's backs because this budget does n't reach that far !  the people that are hurt by this budget are not only the poor but the average american .  as members of congress , we have a solemn responsibility to protect the welfare of all our nation 's citizens , and the republican budget fails to meet that responsibility .  i urge my colleagues to oppose this damaging and devastating attack on the social welfare of this country masquerading as a budget .  i thank the gentlewoman from new york for yielding me the time .  mr. chairman , this budget of course is a clear statement of the economic objectives of the people who have put it together , and it is illustrative of where they want this country to be over the course of the next year .  in understanding that , it is important for us to look back at previous budgets that they have constructed and the effect that those budgets have had on the economy of our country .  we have here in washington today , and have for the last 4 years , a monolithic government .  in other words , the republican party controls both houses of the congress , the house and the senate , and the white house .  so they are in complete control of the budget operation , how we take in money , and how we spend it , allegedly , on behalf of the american people .  let us just take a look at the effects of their budgets and economic policies over the course of the last several years .  first of all , the economy has endured the most protracted job slump since the 1930s .  last year we had some increase in jobs .  government payrolls , in fact , have expanded .  and it is interesting , because our colleagues in the republican party talk about shrinking government .  but what their budget policies have managed to do is to expand government .  at the same time , there were 544 , 000 fewer private nonfarm payroll jobs and 2.8 million fewer manufacturing jobs .  their budget policies have cost us nearly 3 million manufacturing jobs over the last several years .  the official unemployment rate is now 5.4 percent .  but many more people than that would like to go to work if there was an opportunity for them to do so .  when you include the 5 million people who have stopped looking but who would take a job if one were available to them and the 4.3 million people who have been forced to settle for part-time employment , when you consider all of those , the unemployment rate jumps to 9.3 percent .  four years ago america enjoyed a $ 5.6 trillion 10-year projected budget surplus .  today our country is facing a $ 3.3 trillion 10-year projected budget deficit .  that is a heroic accomplishment over the last 5 years by these republican budgets , nearly $ 9 trillion in negative results .  the public debt has almost doubled and will probably reach $ 5 trillion before the end of this year , all of that as a result of these budgets , and this particular budget that we are addressing tonight continues these same policies .  one consequence of the low national savings associated with large budget deficits is that we are running now a very large trade deficit .  in january , for example , the last month for which we have figures , it was $ 58.3 billion in trade deficit just for the month of january .  last year we accomplished a record trade deficit .  the trade deficit for the year 2004 was a record $ 617 billion .  this budget continues those same policies .  but those deficits are unsustainable .  our economy will not survive if we continue along the same road .  american workers are becoming more productive , but that productivity as a result of these budgets is not showing up in their wages .  private nonfarm industries ' wages have fallen .6 percent , after being adjusted for inflation .  this year , this past year alone , typical households will make $ 1 , 500 less than they did 4 years ago as a result of the economic policies reflected in this and the previous budgets of the republican party .  since november 2001 , output per hour has increased from the average worker by an average of 3.9 percent per year .  over that same period , the hourly wages and benefits of the workers producing that increased output has increased by only 1.6 percent per year .  the current account deficit , which measures the amount we have to borrow from the rest of the world to finance our international trade imbalance , reached a record of over $ 600 billion .  increasingly , foreign central banks purchase u.s. treasury securities , and that means that we are increasingly deeper and deeper in debt to other foreign countries .  that is also a result of these budgets .  if foreigners become nervous about the falling value of the dollar , they could stop buying our treasury debt , which would cause the dollar to plunge .  the consequence could be an international financial crisis , sharply higher inflation and interest rates , and also stop any economic recovery .  so the debate today on this budget resolution is critically important .  the question is , are we going to continue the policies that have put us in this very difficult position where we find ourselves today as a result of the previous four budgets passed by this monolithic government , or are we finally going to wake up , realize the consequences of these policies and begin to take a new course ?  that vote will come tomorrow .  madam chairman , i move to strike the last word .  madam chairman , i rise to engage the chairman of the interior subcommittee in a colloquy dealing with some language in the committee report requiring the environmental protection agency to fund a national academy of sciences study concerning the hudson river .  the language was added to the report unfortunately without the knowledge of those of us who represent the hudson river area in new york state .  more than a decade has already been spent studying cleanup alternatives for the hudson river .  therefore , the request for this new study raises concerns .  those of us who live in the region would like clarification as to what the impact of this new study would be .  from what i understand , the report language in no way is intended to delay , stop , or otherwise disrupt either phase i or phase ii of the pcb cleanup planned for the hudson river which is slated to begin in the summer of 2006 .  is that the gentleman 's understanding as well ?  i very much thank the gentleman for his leadership in the committee , and i thank him for his response .  there is widespread support for the hudson river cleanup project , and i know the people i represent will be relieved to hear the chairman clarify that this report will in no way delay phase i or phase ii of the hudson river pcb cleanup .  i would suggest that if the study does proceed , it should be focused on new developments and should address the national academy of sciences ' recommendations .  mr. chairman , can i inquire as to how much time is remaining ?  that is correct .  the gentlewoman from connecticut ( ms. delauro )  is correct .  this would simply be for 1 year .  it is a trial , in effect ; and we ought to put it in place .  mr. chairman , i demand a recorded vote .  madam chairman , i rise to express my disappointment with the interior appropriations bill that we are considering today .  i am concerned with the lack of funding for many important programs , and am particularly concerned with the appropriation committee 's decision to zero out funding for a federal program that is important to my state and the nation -- the land and water conservation fund .  the land and water conservation fund has been instrumental in assisting local and state government 's preserve such vital open spaces is the land and water conservation fund ( lwcf ) .  this program was established in 1965 to address rapid overdevelopment by increasing the number of high quality recreation areas and facilities and by increasing the local involvement in land preservation .  to achieve this goal , the fund was separated into two components , one portion of the fund serves an account from which the federal government draws from to acquire land and the other portion is distributed to states in a matching grant program .  new jersey has been active in seeking grants from this program and has received funds from the lwcf that were used to preserve treasures such as the pinelands national reserve and the delaware national scenic river .  in addition , lcwf has provided more that $ 111 million in state and local grants to build softball fields , rehabilitate playgrounds and to expand state parks .  unfortunately , in recent years funding for the state side part of this program has been insufficient .  in fact , this program was zeroed out in the mid-1990s .  in 1999 , i joined representative mcgovern in restoring funding for this program .  since then funding for the program has risen to 91 million in fiscal year 2005 , i am dismayed that the interior appropriations bill for fiscal year 2006 has once again zeroed out funding for the state grant portion of the program .  i am fully aware that we are working under a tight budget and that many programs in this bill receive a significant reduction in funding , but i believe that it is unnecessary and unwise to strip this program of all funding .  urban and highly developed regions will suffer the most from the elimination of the lwcf state grant program .  the lcwf matching grant program has proven to be a successful way to overcome the high cost of living that makes land acquisition and renewal projects costly in these regions .  elimination of this program will leave local leaders without the financial capital necessary to enhance the quality of life in their communities .  theodore roosevelt once said , `` the nation behaves well if it treats the natural resources as assets which it must turn over to the next generation increased , and not impaired , in value. '' although the citizens of new jersey and this nation have demonstrated their enthusiasm for this program , this bill fails to meet their commitment to our future .  mr. speaker , today i rise to oppose the labor-hhs-education conference report , which is the most recent evidence that working and middle class americans are paying the price for the republican economic agenda of tax cuts for the wealthiest americans .  not only does this immoral budget fail to provide for what the american people need now , it also fails to address what it will take to be economically competitive in the future .  overall , the conference report cuts education , health care , and human services by $ 1.5 billion from what was spent on these efforts last year .  meanwhile , republicans will spend $ 11 billion this week on a capital gains and dividend income tax cut that will provide 53 percent of its benefit to people making more than $ 1 million per year .  their plan spends more on tax cuts this week alone ( $ 70 billion ) than on both the department of education and the department of labor ( $ 68 billion ) for an entire year .  funding for education is also cut by $ 784 million , the first time the no child left behind ( nclb ) act will have been cut since the law was enacted .  title i , which is the core of nclb 's efforts to improve reading and math skills , receives the smallest increase in eight years .  because it fails to keep pace with our growing population , 3.1 million low-income children will be left behind .  a program for which i have consistently advocated is mathematics & amp ; science partnerships .  under this program , grants are first made to states , which , in turn , make grants to partnerships that must include a state agency ; an engineering , math or science department of a college or university ; and a high-need school district .  grantees use these funds to establish rigorous math and science programs ; recruit math , science and engineering majors into teaching ; and improve the teaching skills of math and science teachers .  without significant investment in math and science education , we will not be competitive with countries like china who are graduating nine times the number of engineering students that we are producing in america .  unfortunately , this conference report appropriates $ 6 million less than the house passed earlier this year and $ 85 million ( 32 percent ) less than the president 's request .  also important for long term economic competitiveness is the educational technology state grants program .  like math and science partnerships this program received $ 25 million less than the house bill , $ 150 million ( 35 percent ) less than the senate bill , and $ 221 million ( 45 percent ) less than the current appropriation .  this is exactly the wrong direction to be taking the country .  we can not stay globally competitive if we are not teaching our children the skills and knowledge they will need to be the innovators of tomorrow .  education for the disabled is also slashed .  this bill cuts the federal share of special education costs from 18.6 percent in fy 2005 to 18.0 percent by providing the smallest increase for the individuals with disabilities education act in a decade .  the bill provides $ 4 billion less than republicans promised for idea .  similarly , the bill cuts $ 17 million for vocational education .  this cut will force local school boards to raise funds or cut other services to make up the shortfall .  this will not prepare our children with the high tech vocational education they will need to obtain a job that pays well but for which a college degree is not necessary .  with 7.4 million americans out of work it is unclear to me why republicans are cutting the community college initiative .  this initiative would train workers for high skill , high paying jobs , yet it is being reduced by $ 125 million , denying this assistance to 100 , 000 americans of a continued education to help them get a new job .  this bill also cuts job search assistance through the employment service by $ 89 million ( 11 percent ) and unemployment insurance by $ 245 million ( 7 percent ) , eliminating help for 1.9 million people .  this bill is no better for those attending college full-time .  despite the fact that higher education is increasingly expensive , the majority has decided not to increase the maximum pell grant .  rather it is being frozen for the fourth straight year , and no new funding is provided for any other student financial aid and support programs , even though college costs have increased by $ 3 , 095 ( 34 percent ) since 2001 .  college students are not the only ones left out in the cold by this bill .  families and seniors who can not afford to pay the expected 46 percent increase for natural gas and 28 percent for home heating oil this winter will have to get by without energy assistance from the federal government .  for some reason republicans have refused to increase funding for the low-income home energy assistance program ( liheap ) , which helps keep the heat on for people who can not otherwise heat their homes in winter .  as this bill hurts families ' ability to pay for college and heat their homes , it also deals a blow to their ability to receive healthcare .  nearly 46 million americans are without health insurance , yet republicans provide virtually no funding for new community health centers beyond the amount approved last year .  they also eliminate the healthy communities access program altogether along with the state planning grants to improve health care coverage .  where do the republicans find the moral justification to cut these programs while planning to pass another $ 70 billion tax cut for the top 1 % ?  the bill does little to prepare for long-term healthcare concerns or invest in medical research .  the centers for disease control ( cdc ) is cut $ 249 million ( 3.9 percent ) .  the national institutes of health ( nih ) receives a ( 0.7 percent ) increase -- its smallest increase in 36 years , and not enough to keep the number of research grants from declining for the second year in a row .  how are we supposed to remain the world leader in health research with funding numbers like this ?  i believe american leadership is fueled by national investments in an educated and skilled workforce , groundbreaking federal research , and a steadfast commitment to being the most competitive and innovative nation in the world .  we must make the decision now to ensure that america remains the world leader in innovation and competitiveness .  this bill takes us in the opposite direction .  america 's global leadership in technological advancement and innovation is being seriously challenged by other countries .  the warning signs could not be clearer .  the rest of the world is increasing its capacity , its investments , and its will to catch up with us .  we can not ignore this challenge .  americans again must innovate in order to create new thriving industries that will produce millions of good jobs here at home and a better future for our children .  today this bill moves us further away from achieving this goal .  mr. chairman , the federal budget should be a statement of our country 's values .  it should reflect the priorities of the american people : good jobs , safe communities , quality education , and access to health care .  the republican budget , h. con .  res. 95 , is not aligned with these priorities ; and i , therefore , rise in opposition to its passage .  like president bush 's budget proposal , the republican budget calls for sweeping cuts in mandatory and non-defense discretionary spending that could harm the effectiveness of vital federal programs .  perhaps in an effort to obfuscate the truth , house republicans fail to provide the specificity the president does in his budget , so we are left to wonder which programs may get slashed or eliminated .  but we do know this : the republican budget resolution instructs various house committees to make almost $ 69 billion in cuts to mandatory spending programs .  the energy and commerce committee , for example , would be forced to find $ 20 billion in savings over five years .  all indications are that medicaid , which provides health coverage for more than 52 million low-income americans , will take the brunt of the cuts .  the proposed budget will also cut veterans ' health care by $ 14 billion , education programs by $ 2.5 billion and clean water programs by $ 700 million .  it will slash economic development programs by $ 1.5 billion , possibly leading to the elimination of the extraordinarily successful community development block grant ( cdbg ) program .  the cdbg provides federal funding for locally-identified projects , like affordable housing , economic redevelopment , roads and public libraries .  the republican budget , in fact , neither adequately funds our national priorities , nor does it offer a strategy for achieving fiscal discipline .  the resolution calls for a $ 376 billion deficit in fy 2006 , but the deficit is worse than it appears .  in calculating the deficit , house republicans use surpluses in the social security trust funds to offset spending on other programs .  if the social security surpluses are not counted , the projected deficit for fy 2006 would be $ 564.5 billion .  democrats , on the other hand , will be offering an alternative proposal today that reflects the priorities of the american people .  the democratic budget provides $ 4.5 billion more for education and training programs , $ 1.6 billion more for veterans programs , $ 2 billion more for community and regional development and $ 1.1 billion more for law enforcement and justice programs .  it does all this while instituting a plan to balance the budget by 2012 and protecting medicaid and social security .  mr. chairman , it is clear that the republicans have chosen to neglect the needs of the many in order to maintain and extend tax cuts for the elite few ; it is clear where their priorities lie .  i urge my colleagues to align their priorities with those of the american people , and vote against the republican budget resolution and for the democratic alternative .  mr. chairman , i thank the gentleman for yielding me this time .  mr. chairman , this republican budget conclusively demonstrates one thing : that when it comes to audacity , our friends on the other side of the aisle have an unlimited supply .  yesterday republican leaders , including the gentleman from texas ( mr. delay )  , majority leader ; and the gentleman from california ( mr. dreier )  , chairman of the committee on rules , claimed on this floor that the policies adopted by the republican party last year reduced last year 's budget deficit by $ 109 billion .  what an extraordinary lewis carroll `` alice in wonderland '' representation .  you incurred over $ 350 billion of deficit , as you well know .  the only thing you reduced was the inflated figure the white house came with at the beginning of the year .  a figure that , by the way , was supposed to be zero , as i recall , the 2001 budget .  on the republican party 's watch , the federal government recorded the worst budget deficit in american history , $ 412 billion in fiscal year 2004 .  four hundred and twelve billion dollars of deficit spending , and that is counting using every nickel of social security , which you said you were not going to do , which the president said you were not going to do .  and you had a `` lockbox. '' it is a sieve box .  our republican friends , it appears , are the only people who believe that a $ 412 billion deficit is something to brag about .  for years they have preened as fiscal conservatives , but in less than 48 months they have turned the projected 10-year budget surplus , a $ 5.6 trillion surplus that they were handed , that president bush from this rostrum said we had as a result of the 8 years of the clinton administration , $ 5.6 trillion , into a deficit today in 48 months .  i will put up 8. forty-eight months , we ought to be ashamed of that .  we ought to be ashamed to tell our children that that is what we have done to them .  we ought to be ashamed to tell our grandchildren , of which i have three , that that is what we have done to them and their generation .  we have added more than $ 2.2 trillion to the national debt in 48 months .  the entire debt of the united states of america from 1789 to 1981 , when i came to congress , was $ 985 billion , cumulative debt .  from 1789 to 1981 , $ 985 billion .  last year we raised the debt $ 984 billion in one year .  that is the height of fiscal irresponsibility , and i suggest it is also a fiscally immoral act and is the abuse of our children and grandchildren and generations yet to come , who in their time will face a challenge perhaps like the democratic budget that the gentleman from south carolina ( mr. spratt )  offers has balance by 2012 .  it has the paygo system , which mr. greenspan is for , but you are not for because you do not want to pay .  you talk about cutting taxes or raising taxes , but what you are really saying is you do not want to pay for what you are buying .  and you buy because all the spending that we have incurred is in your budgets .  all of the spending is in budgets .  we can not control the budgets .  so all of the spending , but there is very little of the pain .  that is fiscally irresponsible .  i would like to see who is going to vote for the bankruptcy bill when it comes on the floor that want responsible borrowers .  i will vote for the spratt alternative because it is a responsible alternative , and i will enthusiastically and proudly and morally vote against the republican alternative .  mr. chairman , i just went back to my office after i spoke , and i heard the gentleman speaking just now .  and he talked about waste , fraud and abuse .  and my question to the gentleman is , you have been through the budget hearings .  why do you suppose it is that the bush administration over the last 50 months has not rooted out that waste , fraud , and abuse ?  mr. chairman , if the gentleman will yield further , that occurred to me as well .  i thank the gentleman for his response .  mr. speaker , i am sorry that the gentleman from indiana ( mr. pence )  left the floor .  the majority party neither funds the appropriate priorities in this bill nor meets its responsibilities for fiscal sound management of the federal government .  it has taken this nation $ 3 trillion into additional debt in the last 56 , 58 months .  during the last 4 years of the clinton administration , we did not have to increase the debt once , not once .  mr. speaker , this appropriations conference report betrays our nation 's values and its future .  it is neither compassionate , conservative nor wise , and i will vote against it .  our colleagues on the other side of the aisle , including my republican friends on the labor health committee , claim that there is little they can do to improve the funding levels in this key domestic program .  they say that they have no options , no alternative , that they are only complying with the funding levels dictated by the republican budget resolution , a resolution which results in an additional almost trillion dollars in additional debt .  but let me remind them , you voted for that budget resolution and you can not have it both ways .  you can not vote for draconian cuts in april and disclaim responsibility when those cuts are enacted in november .  at a time when we should be striving to make american schools and american students the best and the most competitive in the world , this bill insures that our nation falls further and further behind .  unconscionably , this conference report cuts the federal investment in education below current levels by $ 59 million , for the first time in a decade .  and it cuts funding for no child left behind by $ 784 million , 3.2 percent cut , below the current level .  this means that we have now reached a $ 40 billion cumulative shortfall below the amount we promised our children when president bush signed this bill into law .  we do nothing in this bill to make higher education more accessible .  in my state , and i am sure in the chairman 's state , and the chairman i do not criticize .  he is given what he is given and he does the best he can .  but in my state , costs have gone up for college kids and their families .  despite the president 's 2000 campaign promise to increase the maximum pell grant to $ 5 , 100 , despite that promise , this bill freezes the maximum pell grant at over 25 percent below that , at $ 4 , 050 .  for the fourth year in a row , that promise has been broken , while tuition and fees have increased 46 percent since 2001 .  however , the inappropriate funding levels in this conference report should not surprise anyone .  they are the inevitable consequence , and i am glad my friend from indiana has returned , because the budget deficits confronting this nation and the underfunding of priorities in this nation are the inevitable consequence of the fiscal policies of the republican majority and this administration , policies that starve the government resources .  so let everyone here and everyone watching at home understand , the funding levels contained in this conference report are the direct consequence of the republican party 's failed economic policies that have spawned record budget deficits .  why ?  because the next bill that is coming down the line will cut taxes by some $ 70 billion .  as the gentleman from alaska ( mr. young )  asked , is it saving money ?  it is not .  and those failed policies are the proximate cause of this woefully underfunded and unacceptable conference report .  when we started on this budget disaster , jim nussle , republican leader of the budget committee said this : `` we do not touch social security .  it does not touch medicare .  in fact , this budget accomplishes the largest reduction of the debt held by the public in our history .  the bill does not change in one way , shape or form .  and by the end of 10 years , this budget will have eliminated the debt held by the public. '' in fact , it has taken , contrary to mr. nussle 's representations , $ 3 trillion , with a t , additional debt has been accumulated under these budgets .  all they do is underfund priorities and adopt fiscally irresponsible policies .  what a shame for america .  together america can do better .  mr. speaker , i know the subcommittee chairman , the ranking member , and the majority and minority staff , did the best they could under the circumstances .  but i think cutting title vii health professions by 69 percent , eliminating some title vii programs entirely , is draconian and unconscionable .  since i started serving on this subcommittee almost 7 years ago , i have fought to end disparities , disparities in employment , disparities in education , disparities in health .  and health disparities are real .  if one is black in this country , their life expectancy is 66 years .  if one is white in this country , it is 74 years .  infant mortality is twice as high for african american babies as it is for white babies .  fortunately , institutions like the institute of medicine of the national academy of sciences have laid out a framework on how to end these disparities .  one of the recommendations of the iom was to increase the number of minority health professions .  this mark does exactly the opposite , cutting health professions by almost $ 200 million .  mr. speaker , in the centers of excellence program , this cut will eliminate 30 programs at minority serving institutions , negatively impacting approximately 1 , 000 under-represented minority students and almost 180 under-represented faculty at these schools .  in the faculty loan repayment program , approximately 40 under-represented staff persons will lose their jobs .  in the health careers opportunity program , 7 , 000 minority disadvantaged students will be negatively impacted and 3 , 000 k through 12 students will be negatively impacted .  mr. speaker , this assault on minority serving programs is unjustified and overtly irresponsible .  i think that a society says a lot about the way it treats its most vulnerable of its citizens .  i believe that we live in a united states and , like a chain , we are only as strong as our weakest link .  by leaving some of our citizens behind , we prove that we are not strong and compassionate but weak and uncaring .  i keep hearing members of this body say , jessie , this is a tight budget year .  mr. speaker , this is a tight year .  it was not created by immaculate conception .  some of us voted to make it a tight budget year .  some of us voted to approve the budget resolution .  saying it is going to be a tough budget year is like a farmer saying he is going to have a bad harvest because he did not plant any seeds .  mr. speaker , when congress approved this budget resolution , we did not plant any seeds and nothing will grow this year , not because of a natural disaster like a drought , but because of our own making in this congress .  shame on us .  the chairman and the subcommittee did the best they could , but this is a terrible mark , and i urge a `` no '' on this bill .  mr. chairman , it is very interesting listening to my colleagues make a presentation on their budget .  and i would ask them really the real question , this is not about what congress would do .  this is about the needs of the american people .  it is interesting that if there was a serious intent about a budget that really was fair and did not burden the children of the future , we would not be adopting both the gentleman from iowa 's budget and the gentleman from texas ' budget , $ 1.5 trillion in new tax cuts over the next 10 years as proposed by the president and taking every single penny from social security .  the budget that is on the floor right now does nothing to close the disparities between african americans , hispanics and others less fortunate than others in the united states of america .  the congressional black caucus budget , fair , balanced , closing the deficit , protecting our troops , but it understands protecting medicaid and education funds and health care funds and homeland security .  the budget that is on the floor today now supports a trillion dollars plus in tax cuts and does nothing for catastrophic possibilities that may happen , such as a terrorist attack .  this is the wrong direction to go .  the congressional black caucus closes the disparities and supports the investment in the american people .  mr. chairman , happy birthday to my colleague .  let me resoundingly support the congressional black caucus ' budget , and let me ask my colleagues what better budget to have than the one that saves $ 27.5 billion more in interest than the republican budget ?  i can not imagine that my good friend on the floor of the house would not welcome the opportunity of putting that interest into the needs of the american people .  we need affordable housing .  we can go to any city , any rural community , and not see people standing in line to access affordable housing .  section 8 vouchers , which allows affordable housing for families of four and five and six hard-working americans , there are 25 , 000 people on the list in houston , texas alone .  millions of people are still on the list because they do not have affordable housing .  finally i congratulate the gentleman from virginia ( mr. scott )  and the gentleman from north carolina ( mr. watt )  on this budget because it also invests in homeland security .  with all of the talk of the republican budget , they do not fund immigration and customs officers .  they do not fund border patrol officers to secure our borders and provide for internal security .  the cbc budget does .  the cbc budget puts $ 150 million in for border and customs needs .  this is a strong budget for the american people .  vote for the congressional black caucus budget .  save $ 27.5 billion in interest .  i think you will like that in your pocket and in your savings account !  mr. chairman , i rise today to offer another choice to those americans who are disheartened by the current budget proposal being offered by this republican congress .  today , we offer them the choice of accepting the congressional black caucus 's , cbc , alternative budget .  truly , it is the budget of hope and compromise ; it is the budget that closes the disparities in america 's communities .  the cbc alternative budget provides both social and economic equality for americans , instead of allowing the richest americans to pay fewer taxes at the expense of vital programs needed by lower and middle class americans .  surely , this administration and the republican leadership in congress will pay lip service to the needs of these americans , but this budget does more .  it demonstrates in writing that under our current budgetary situation it is possible to maintain necessary social programs while practicing true fiscal responsibility .  the cbc alternative budget is particularly strong in its support of educational programs , the greatest key we possess to close disparities in our society .  this administration and the majority in this congress promised to leave no child behind , but clearly they have reneged on their promise .  the republican budget eliminates 48 education programs that receive $ 4.3 billion this year .  these eliminations include wiping out $ 1.3 billion for all vocational education programs , $ 522 million for all education technology programs , and $ 29 million for all civic education programs .  the republican budget eliminates other large programs including the even start family literacy program , $ 225 million , and state grants for safe and drug-free schools and communities , $ 437 million .  in fact , the president 's budget cuts 2006 funding the cbc alternative budget in stark contrast provides a much needed boost of $ 23.9 billion to education and training , including $ 2.5 billion for school construction .  the cbc alternative fully funds the fiscal year 2006 authorization level for no child left behind , nclb and provides for an expansion of the head start program .  in addition , the cbc alternative doubles federal funding for historically black colleges and universities and hispanic serving institutions ; again closing the disparities often witnessed in higher education .  in that regard the cbc alternative increases the pell grant allotment for college students .  because as we all know , a mind , any mind , is a terrible thing to waste .  clearly , the cbc alternative emphasizes this ideal more than the republican budget resolution .  few things are more important to americans than their home and their communities .  while the president and this republican congress take steps to make it harder for average americans to reach homeownership , the cbc alternative invests heavily in this vital sector .  it funds home ownership initiatives that help families build real wealth .  in the city of houston alone we have 25 , 000 people waiting on a list to obtain affordable housing .  these homes will provide them the stability and equity to build their lives and eventually achieve their own prosperity , we shame ourselves when we deny them the opportunity to do so .  the cbc alternative also restores $ 1.122 billion for vital community block grants which were gutted in the republican budget resolution .  without the ability to build up our communities how can we change people 's realities ?  without community development we allow these disparities to continue unabated .  the cbc alternative budget does not remove any money from the overall defense and homeland security budget .  instead , it takes $ 7.7 billion out of the ballistic missile defense program , which has so far proven to be a failure and redirects the money to additional support for the troops in iraq , homeland security needs , and veterans programs and benefits .  among the items of support for the troops in iraq is $ 75 million of body armor , personal support equipment , and other protective gear for troops , and vehicle armor ; all of which we know the troops are in urgent need of .  the cbc alternative provides an additional $ 2.05 billion for homeland security including funds for improving rail and port security , which have always been high risk targets for attack .  this alternative budget provides $ 4.65 billion for veterans funding , so that when our brave men and women return home from fighting the war on terror they will know that their nation is ready and willing to take care of them .  the cbc alternative also funds the important sector of immigration .  as the ranking member of the subcommittee on immigration , border security , and claims i worked with the cbc to get funding for $ 150 million for immigration and customs enforcement , ice , agents and border patrol agents , truly we are undermanned in this vital sector .  in addition , as a member of the house science committee i worked with the cbc to fund an additional $ 500 million for general science , space , and development and support the research and development efforts of nasa , the national science foundation , nsf , the national institute of standards and technologies , nist , and the department of energy .  in addition to research and development , the cbc alternative also supports additional this cbc alternative budget is proof positive that we can properly fund social programs while still paying down more of the national debt than the republican budget .  again , i say that this budget represents hope instead of the despair we feel when looking at the republican budget resolution .  it is a hope for ending the disparities that continue to divide us and keep us to this day from achieving our full potential as a nation .  mr. chairman , i want to thank the chairman of the congressional black caucus , the gentleman from north carolina ( mr. watt )  , for his steadfast support of the development of this cbc budget alternative and also the gentleman from virginia ( mr. scott )  for his leadership .  i appreciate and applaud their steady stream of ideas and positions on issues we all care about .  this republican budget proposal clearly ignores the needs of my state and all working americans .  the $ 2.57 trillion budget for fiscal year 2006 that president bush laid before congress is more out of touch than all the rest that he has submitted .  it fails to include huge costs that taxpayers will have to bear , and its priorities do not match the needs of millions of people .  it is , in short , a budget in need of a thorough congressional overhaul .  the level of funding proposed in the president 's budget for research and development , especially basic research , is far from adequate .  i believe that federal investments in science and technology make sense .  americans have funded groundbreaking research into disease prevention and amazing new medical breakthroughs , cutting-edge business technology , energy efficiency and educational tools that help our children learn in new ways .  but in this budget , funding for the national science foundation would struggle to keep up with inflation and programs at most other major agencies are cut .  there is a direct connection between investments in research and development today and economic prosperity and world leadership tomorrow .  that is why the cbc budget plan would continue to invest in the national science foundation , in nasa , research at schools and universities and new energy technologies to give business consumers more affordable , cleaner energy .  just this week , epa issued a statement that really rolls us back in protecting our air .  we have no clean air in texas .  i do not know about anyplace else .  as lawmakers , we do have the responsibility to ensure that all americans , including minorities , are able to move ahead to achieve the american dream .  life , liberty , and the pursuit of happiness meant all people .  mr. chairman , it is up to the congress to inject a dose of realism into this budget debate .  only then will the country get a budget that makes sense .  mr. chairman , i want to thank the chairman of the congressional black caucus , mr. watt , for his steadfast support of the development of this cbc budget alternate .  i also want to thank mr. scott for his leadership .  i appreciate and applaud their steady stream of ideas and positions on issues we all care about .  i also would like to thank all of the members of the cbc and their staff for their help in completing this very worthwhile project .  the republican budget proposal clearly ignores the needs of texas and of all working americans .  the $ 2.57 trillion budget for fiscal 2006 that president bush laid before congress is more out of touch than most .  it fails to include huge costs that taxpayers will have to bear , and its priorities do n't match the needs of millions of people .  it is , in short , a budget in need of a thorough congressional overhaul .  mr. chairman , the level of funding proposed in the president 's budget for research and development , especially basic research , is far from adequate .  i believe that federal investments in science and technology make sense .  americans have funded groundbreaking research into disease prevention and amazing new medical breakthroughs , cutting-edge business technology , energy efficiency , and educational tools that help our children learn in new ways .  but in this budget package , funding for the national science foundation ( nsf ) would struggle to keep up with inflation , and programmes at most other major agencies are cut .  bush 's science and technology budget would drop from an estimated $ 61.7 billion in fiscal year 2005 to $ 60.8 billion in 2006 .  the science and technology includes programs such as space exploration , renewable energy , and agricultural research , as well as technology-related research and development at the national institute of standards and technology ( nist ) .  there is a direct connection between investments in research and development today , and economic prosperity and world leadership tomorrow .  that 's why cbc budget plan would continue to invest in the national science foundation , nasa , research at schools and universities ; and new energy technologies to give business and consumers more affordable , cleaner energy .  as lawmakers , we have the responsibility to ensure that all americans , including minorities , are able to move ahead to achieve the american dream : life , liberty and the pursuit of happiness .  mr. chairman , it is up to congress to inject a dose of realism into the budget debate .  only then will the country get a budget that makes sense .  madam chairman , i appreciate the gentleman yielding me this time , and i want to explain a problem that we discovered as the bill has been moving through .  since 1997 , by executive order , a program was created known as the american heritage rivers initiative .  in that program , there are 14 rivers , one of which is the hudson river in new york state and the susquehanna in pennsylvania .  as a combined effort over the last 5 or 6 years , funding for the river navigator has come through the program of the natural resources conservation service .  either inadvertently or otherwise , even though we have had bipartisan support for the support of these two navigator positions for the hudson river and the susquehanna , the susquehanna was inadvertently not included in report language on page 51 of the report , where only the hudson river is indicated .  what i would request from the chairman is assurances that during conference that report language would be amended to include the susquehanna river for funding the navigator .  just as a justification for that , i want to point out that the susquehanna river has been designated by american rivers as one of the most polluted and endangered rivers in the country .  toward that end , the navigator presently in place has been involved in two areas : improving water quality and use , and increased economic development in the region .  to give my colleagues an example , we are now in the throes of more than $ 100 million in projects as a result of the effort of the navigator position : remodeling an old hotel in downtown wilkes-barre on the waterfront that exceeds $ 24 million in costs ; riverfront revitalization that is between $ 25 million and $ 30 million ; a program of $ 10 million of the gis project to include the entire susquehanna watershed so that we can work on water quality problems in that area of the susquehanna river ; and a project , an ongoing project presently of over $ 30 million to service the combined sewage overflows into the susquehanna river .  without the key leadership of the navigator , we will lose that $ 100 or $ 150 million in projects and return to really zero .  what i am urging the chairman to indicate is his willingness to amend the report language as this bill proceeds through conference to include not only the hudson river but also the susquehanna river .  i may assure the chairman that we have worked in a very bipartisan effort with members of the new york delegation and governor pataki 's office that both of these river navigator positions should be funded in this bill , as the other 12 navigators are funded in other appropriations bills across the country .  but to leave out the susquehanna river , either inadvertently or by error , would be catastrophic to my congressional district .  madam chairman , i appreciate the chairman 's interest ; and i will rely on the chairman 's good faith to accomplish to that end .  as a result , i think we can all say that we have resolved this problem .  mr. speaker , i thank you for the opportunity to say a few words about why i think this bill is a bill that says that the best days of this country are behind us , not before us .  i call attention to some statistics , statistics that say the high school dropout over the course of their life will earn $ 260 , 000 less than a graduate .  this legislation , i think , does very little to support more students graduating from high school when it cuts after-school programs by 25 percent .  if you spread that across 23 million high school dropouts in this country , that adds up to $ 50 billion a year less in taxes .  so if we are really concerned about generating more taxes , we ought to be investing in our people , not taking away the kinds of resources that contribute to their ability to become greater taxpayers in this country .  mr. speaker , $ 1 invested in preschool leaves $ 7 saved in welfare , health care and criminal justice .  let 's invest in our people .  mr. speaker , i thank the ranking member , mr. obey , and i thank him and applaud him for his steadfast voice on behalf of those who need a voice on the hill , who always speaks up on behalf of those without a voice .  and i want to thank the chairman for his steadfast work trying to make the best of a bad situation .  you know , mr. chairman , i think that when you got on to that republican bus and you were trying to find a seat up front for the people 's bill , a seat up front for education , a seat up front for health care , a seat up front for human services , all the front row seats were already taken .  they were taken by the tax cut bill , they were taken by the corporate loophole bill for energy companies , and they were taken by the big pharmaceutical giveaways .  i tell the chairman , in many respects , just like rosa parks , whose life we celebrated just recently , you were told to take your people 's bill to the back of the bus .  right now , mr. speaker , that is just where all of our nation 's priorities are , at the back of the bus .  these are priorities that ought to be at the front .  these are priorities , like education , that are going to lead our country to the future .  we are talking about a war now in the middle east .  we are going to have another war on our hands .  it is an economic war .  we used to use our military for political and military hegemony .  now , for us to have political hegemony , we need intellectual power .  our military analogy is our young people need to have textbooks , not tanks .  they need to have pencils .  they need to have schools that are not falling down on them .  they need to be able to go on to higher education .  but , unfortunately , mr. speaker , this bill represents the single biggest cut in higher education that we have ever seen in the history of this country .  imagine that at a time when our nation 's economy demands that our soldiers , our men and women who were trying to make a living for themselves , are being taken hostage because they do not have all the protective gear that they need .  they do not have an education to wrap themselves around so that they can go out into that economic workforce and be protected and know that they can make a living for themselves in this new-world economy .  so i thank the chairman for doing the best job that he could ; but i am sure , as he knows , the people 's bill , unfortunately , in this budget took a back seat to many other bills that , unfortunately , i do not believe it should have taken a back seat to .  mr. chairman , i thank our ranking member for yielding me this time .  this is a bad budget .  the very safety net that we hoped to help american families is being shredded .  the republican budget is wrong ; and the prescription is wrong for medicaid , over 52 million children , women , elderly , seniors , disabled individuals , 52 million in america .  the largest health care program and the only health care program for many .  the committee on energy and commerce has been instructed to cut $ 20 billion from the medicaid health care program for so many vulnerable citizens .  medicaid pays for 70 percent of nursing home care in michigan .  sixty-four percent of the costs are spent on the elderly and disabled .  do we really want to hurt the least of these who have built this country ?  this republican budget cuts medicaid even more than what the president sent to congress .  we can do better .  i just left a meeting with my governor in our michigan delegation , both democrats and republicans .  unfortunately , the republicans wanted to blame our governor for medicaid , and they said cut medicaid back .  when one is unemployed , when they have no health care , when jobs are being lost , unfortunately they need medicaid .  and it is unfortunate that this budget does not restore medicaid , help the most vulnerable , and not ask for $ 20 billion cut for the elderly , for seniors , for the disabled .  the budget is bad .  it kills medicaid .  we can do better .  mr. chairman , i thank both our chairman as well as the gentleman from virginia ( mr. scott )  for their leadership on this most important effort .  i rise to support the cbc budget , the only budget in this congress at this time that invests in america 's families .  there are three things wrong with america and why we are not doing well .  the permanent tax cuts cost $ 1.2 trillion .  on the war in iraq we have spent $ 300 billion , and the deficit is blooming .  our cbc budget reduces the deficit .  our cbc budget invests in defense , homeland security , and the veterans at the same numbers that were given to this house by the president .  we must support the cbc budget .  americans have to be outraged that we are not investing in their families and their children and their health care .  i hope that we will do right .  the cbc budget must be adopted .  support the congressional black caucus fiscal year 2006 budget substitute the congressional black caucus ( cbc ) fiscal year 2006 budget substitute focuses on the cbc 's agenda ( closing disparities in america 's communities ) and restoring fiscal responsibility to the federal budget process .  the disparities that continue to exist in our society in education , health care , economic opportunity , justice , retirement security and foreign policy are addressed in the cbc budget .  in addition , our budget focuses on strengthening our efforts at the department of homeland security , meeting some of the critical needs of our troops and improving services to our veterans .  and , while making these important investments in our country 's future , our budget places a high priority on reducing the record federal budget deficit .  the cbc budget uses the republican budget as the base budget and makes the following adjustments : it includes a reduction in the tax cuts from 2001 and 2003 for an individual 's adjusted gross income that exceeds $ 200 , 000 ; furthermore , it does not adopt the new republican tax cuts .  most of the revenue raised in the cbc budget is used to address disparities in america 's communities ; a substantial portion is reserved to reduce the deficit .  ballistic missile defense spending is reduced by $ 7.8 billion , leaving $ 1 billion for research and development .  all of these funds are spent on other defense items to support our troops , homeland security needs , and veterans programs and benefits .  the total for defense , homeland security and veterans is equal to the republican budget .  the cbc budget addresses critical domestic challenges , and supports our troops .  the cbc budget reduces the deficit by $ 167 billion compared to the house majority 's budget over the next five years ; this fiscal responsibility is rewarded by a reduction of $ 27 billion in interest payments compared to the house majority 's budget .  the cbc budget focuses on closing disparities that exist in our society and investing in america 's future .  we hope you will join us in supporting these efforts by supporting the cbc budget substitute .  summary of fiscal year 2006 cbc alternative budget total general revenue : $ 32.4 billion .  amount applied to deficit reduction : $ 3.9 billion .  the united states is facing unprecedented challenges to our national security and broader national interests .  although there is an overall increase in the president 's request for international assistance for fy 06 , more needs to be done to address the ongoing global challenges of health , poverty , disease , and disasters .  therefore , the cbc budget increases funding for these core development accounts with the overall goals of reducing poverty disparities and improving quality of life .  + $ 1 billion .  the cbc supports the research and development efforts of nasa , the national science foundation ( nsf ) , the national institute of standards and technologies ( nist ) , and the department of energy .  in addition to research and development , the cbc supports additional safety measures for the space shuttle program .  + $ 500 million .  the cbc is concerned about adequate funding for the preservation of historically black colleges and universities .  the alternative budget supports additional efforts to protect the historical heritage and important cultural role of hbcus in the united states .  + $ 50 million .  the cbc alternative budget supports farms owned by african-americans and other minorities .  the cbc realizes that these farmers continue to depend on the department of agriculture 's loan and grant programs and has allocated funding to modify cuts in agriculture programs that affect minorities .  the caucus 's priorities also include increasing funding for expanding food and nutrition education programs and for the usda office of civil rights .  + $ 300 million .  the cbc alternative budget works towards eliminating the housing and small business disparities created by the president 's fy06 budget .  the alternative budget allocates funding to the small business administration and the manufacturing extension partnership ( mep ) , and provides additional funding for adult training and dislocated workers programs .  by supporting these programs , the cbc is working to close the existing economic disparities in the u.s. and to help entrepreneurs realize the american dream .  + $ 1 billion .  the cbc believes that it is important to provide support for amtrak .  the caucus is also determined to ease the transportation disparities in the united states by funding public transportation .  + $ 150 million .  the cbc understands that federal support for community and regional development helps promote growth in economically distressed urban and rural communities .  to remedy these economic disparities , the cbc would like to ensure that the community development block grant ( cdbg ) program will continue to improve housing conditions in low to moderate income neighborhoods .  + $ 1.5 billion .  the cbc alternative budget represents a comprehensive approach to education and training by closing the achievement and opportunity gaps in education .  while the administration proposes eliminating 48 programs ( $ 4.3 billion cost ) , the cbc budget dramatically increases funding for education and training programs by $ 23.9 billion over the republican budget .  it provides funds for school construction , fully funds no child left behind , and provides critical funding for head start , gear-up , trio and idea .  for those in college , the cbc budget raises the maximum amount of pell grants .  in addition , the cbc budget funds the perkins loan programs as well as job training , adult education , and vocational education programs that are critical in today 's global economy .  + $ 23.9 billion .  the cbc alternative budget makes eliminating health care disparities a top priority by funding health care programs such as community health centers .  + $ 1 billion .  programs that serve children and families in times of need are essential to fixing the disparities that exist in the u.s. the cbc alternative budget supports additional funding for programs such as hope vi , section 8 housing , housing for the disabled and the elderly , low income home energy assistance and child nutrition .  + $ 2 billion .  the cbc is concerned about the proposed cuts that affect local law enforcement personnel and programs .  the alternative budget will help fix these budget disparities and fund the programs that keep our streets and neighborhoods safe .  moreover , the cbc understands the importance of providing adequate funding to juvenile justice programs that promote prevention and intervention .  these programs support effective local efforts that reduce crime and delinquency , save money , and save lives .  + $ 1 billion .  total defense funds used , all of which are reallocated to defense ( $ 1.1 b ) , homeland security needs ( $ 2.05 b ) , and veterans programs and benefits ( $ 4.65 b ) : $ 7.8 billion .  it is a priority of the cbc to provide american soldiers with the equipment necessary to return home from iraq in a safe , quick , and successful manner .  therefore , the cbc budget alternative reallocates $ 1.1 billion within defense .  these funds are used to protect our troops with body armor , personal gear , small arms and ammunition , as well as vehicle armor ; for the construction and maintenance of navy vessels in order to maintain the u.s. naval fleet and jobs associated with it ; and for other defense purposes to maintain our military strength .  - $ 6.7 billion .  the cbc understands that today 's soldiers are tomorrow 's veterans who deserve our respect for the sacrifices they made .  thus , the cbc alternative budget aims to make critical increases in veterans programs , especially funding for veterans health care , as well as long-term care initiatives , va medical and prosthetic research , and mental health care .  +4.65 billion .  the cbc understands that providing homeland security requires appropriate funding to meet the many pressing homeland security needs that face our nation .  the alternative budget therefore devotes additional resources for guarding against terrorist attacks through our rails and ports , including cargo screening that prevents nuclear or radiological weapons from entering the u.s. it also supports essential funding for the centers for disease control to help us prepare for a possible biological attack .  moreover , america depends on its first responders , federal air marshals , and boarder patrol agents ; the cbc alternative budget ensures that they -- and our collective homeland security effort -- receive the resources that are urgently needed to protect the citizens of the united states .  + $ 2.05 billion .  mr. speaker , i rise in opposition to the conference report on h.r. 3010 , labor , health and human services and education appropriations bill for fiscal year 2006 .  like the version rejected by the house last month , the revised version still slashes health , education and jobs programs by $ 1.6 billion below the fy 2005 enacted level .  mr. speaker , this is the second time the house has considered the lhhs conference report .  sadly , a second look at the conference report is not better .  on november 17 , the conference report was rejected because the bill showed that the republican-led congress was out of touch with the priorities and needs of the american people .  the bill before us today does not change the core principles rejected in the first conference report .  the second conference report still underfunds key programs because of the republican-led congress and the administration 's fiscally irresponsible budget priorities , continued insistence on large additional tax cuts for the super rich , and the wars in iraq and afghanistan .  although appropriators must make tough choices because of these extraordinarily tight budget constraints , programs that help millions of americans should not be on the chopping block .  with a record 55 million children in public schools and state budgets stretched thin , no child left behind ( nclb ) funding is cut by $ 779 million .  title i , which is the core of nclb 's efforts to improve reading and math skills , receives the smallest increase for title i in 8 years -- only $ 100 million -- which means 3.1 million low-income children will be left behind .  even as the cost of a 4-year public college education has increased by 34 percent since 2001 , the maximum pell grant is frozen for the fourth straight year at $ 4 , 050 , and no new funding for all other student financial aid and support programs is provided in this conference report .  this conference report will actually cut the federal share of special education costs from 18.6 percent in fy 2005 to 18.0 percent by providing the smallest increase for the individuals with disabilities act in a decade .  the bill provides $ 4 billion less than what was promised for idea .  with 7.6 million americans out of work , republicans cut the community college initiative 's , which trains workers for high skill , high paying jobs by $ 125 million-rescinding funds provided last year and denying this assistance to 100 , 000 americans .  republicans also cut job search assistance through the employment service by 11 percent and cut state unemployment insurance and employment service offices by 7 percent , eliminating help for 1.9 million people .  consumers are expected to pay 52 percent more for natural gas , 11 percent more for electricity , and 24 percent more for home heating oil this winter , yet this conference report failed to increase funding for liheap home heating assistance , which helps keep the heat on for low-income seniors and families with children .  nearly 46 million americans are without health insurance yet this conference report provides almost no funding for new community health centers beyond those approved last year and eliminates the healthy communities access program and state planning grants to improve health care coverage .  preventive health block grants to state health departments help address critical public health problems .  the bill provides less for responding to disease outbreaks , immunizing children , and improving care for people with chronic diseases , when it cuts these grants by $ 31 million .  this conference report reflects the priorities of this republican-led congress and not those of democrats and most americans .  the country 's priorities should be based on the shared sacrifice of all americans , not just sacrifices for the poor , working class , students and seniors .  the labor-hhs-education bill should fund significant health , education , job assistance , training and research programs that impact every american .  this conference report is way short in meeting the needs of americans .  congress is walking away from our commitment to equal opportunity and a better quality of life for all americans .  greater access to employment training , jobs , affordable healthcare , quality education , and ending disparities should be our goal .  this bill falls short of achieving those goals .  mr. speaker , despite the addition of modest funding increases for certain rural health programs , this bill still dramatically cuts the core principles and programs that are important to americans .  i oppose this lhhs conference report and urge all of my colleagues to reject this bill full of misguided priorities .  mr. chairman , i thank my friend from south carolina for yielding me this time , and i also want to thank him and commend him for the leadership that he has shown during the course of the budget committee work and for the alternative democratic substitute which we will talk about a little bit later today .  mr. chairman , there are few moments during the legislative year here in congress which really defines who we are as a congress , who we are as a nation and where we are going with our priorities .  it is one of these moments today when we have a discussion about our budgets and the priorities that we place in the budget .  for some reason , the republican budget that we have before us only is budgeted for 5 years rather than the typical 10 years .  i submit that one of the reasons i think they are doing a 5-year budget instead of a 10-year budget is because of the complete breakdown in fiscal responsibility and what the costs of their budget will entail and the explosion of budget deficits in the second 5 years that they do not want to talk about during the course of these next couple of days during the budget .  we , on the other hand , will be presenting a democratic alternative , one that does , i believe , reflect the values and the priorities that we share as americans in this nation .  our budget will reinstate the pay-as-you-go rules to instill budget discipline again in the decisions that we are making in these budgets .  we achieve a balanced budget under our plan by 2012 , just when the massive baby boom retirement wave really starts to hit , and we protect important investments , in defense , in veterans ' programs , education and health care to keep america strong and to help us grow the economy and create jobs .  by reinstating the pay-as-you-go rules , we will be in a better fiscal position to better preserve and protect the long-term solvency of the social security program .  what this chart demonstrates next to me is the result of budget decisions over the last 14 to 15 years .  this green line which shows an upward trend that resulted in 4 consecutive years of budget surpluses is congress operating under pay-as-you-go rules .  the red lines that show the plummeting of the surpluses into historically large budget deficits shows congress without pay-as-you-go rules .  what is hard to understand about reinstituting pay-as-you-go rules as part of budget discipline and decisions that we have to make to right the fiscal ship again ?  with pay-as-you-go rules , it gave us 4 years of budget surpluses , 2 in which the congress was not raiding the social security trust fund and using that money for large tax cuts or other spending priorities and enabled us to start reducing the national debt which was an incredible economic dynamic at the end of the 1990s .  this chart demonstrates the current raid on the social security trust fund under the bush administration .  every dime in surplus that is being run in the social security account right now is being diverted , to help finance large cuts for the most wealthy or to help finance large new spending programs , a 30 percent increase in federal spending over the last few years alone .  that will continue throughout the duration when we are running surpluses in the social security trust fund under their budget proposal .  what this has meant was increased borrowing cost , year after year after year having to raise the debt ceiling in order to finance the breakdown in fiscal discipline in this place .  why is this important today ?  it is important because we do not owe this debt to ourselves anymore .  ninety percent of the new debt that was purchased this last year alone is being purchased by foreign countries , japan , the number one purchaser , soon to be surpassed by china as the number one holder of our debt .  i do not believe , and democrats do not believe , it is in our best long-term economic interest to be so dependent on foreign interests to be financing these deficits .  the president has been out campaigning on a new social security plan lately .  it is kind of tough to engage in a meaningful discussion since he has not offered a detailed proposal ; but from what we understand , he is calling for massive new borrowing in order to set up these privatized accounts that he is fond of .  in fact , social security runs a deficit of $ 3.7 trillion over the next 75 years .  what the president is proposing to do is to borrow $ 5 trillion for these transition costs to set up private accounts over the first 20 years alone in order to fix a $ 3.7 trillion problem .  and that is probably one of the reasons why he is having such a hard time selling his plan out in middle america .  people know intuitively with this massive new borrowing that it is going to hurt economic growth prospects for our nation ; it is going to jeopardize mr. chairman , i thank the gentleman for yielding me this time .  i have a great deal of respect for the chairman of the committee on the budget .  he is a friend of mine .  he has got a tough job , trying to bring forth a budget priority that reflects his caucus 's wishes in that .  but let us set the facts straight here .  the democratic alternative does a lot better when it comes to support of the education programs than our republican counterpart .  we also in our budget proposal reinstitute the pay-as-you-go rules so that if we are proposing a spending increase or a tax cut in one area , we are going to find an offset in the budget to pay for it .  their budget does not do it .  our budget is also out for 10 years that shows that we come to balance by 2012 .  their budget is a 5-year proposal .  and the reason they do not do it at 10 years is because their deficits explode in the second 5 years .  but their budget has also hidden the true and real cuts that are occurring in their education programs , ones that affect real people , real students in real-life conditions and will not help improve the condition of education or access to higher education , which we desperately need in this country .  their budget proposal actually calls for eliminating $ 4.3 billion worth of education programs in the next fiscal year alone .  they completely wipe out vocational education , the federal commitment to that .  they completely wipe out all the federal education technology programs that exist .  they wipe out the safe and drug-free schools grant program .  they also get rid of trio and gear up , targeting low-income students who want to go on to post-secondary education opportunities .  they wipe out even start family literacy programs .  and their proposals also hurt students by raising fees for student loans for higher education , ending students ' ability to consolidate those loans at a lower fixed rate interest , and not only eliminating the perkins loan program , as the gentleman from south carolina ( mr. spratt )  indicated , but also forcing colleges to repay prior federal perkins contributions .  the democratic alternative is better than that .  we restore these funding cuts as well as $ 4.5 billion in the next fiscal year alone .  talk to any administrator , any teacher throughout the country wrestling with implementing the unfunded federal mandate called no child left behind , and they will say what these requirements are doing to their school districts with the lack of funding to back up those requirements .  talk to special education teachers , and they will say how the lack of education commitment at the federal level , only 18.6 percent of the 40 percent cost share that we promised for special education funding is pitting student against student in our public classrooms throughout the country .  we can do a better job .  the democratic alternative does do a better job , while staying true to fiscal discipline and fiscal responsibility by reinstituting the pay-as-you-go rules that worked very well in the 1990s and led us to 4 years of budget surpluses , while also maintaining a crucial investment in education programs .  as a member of the committee on education and the workforce , i am heading to china in a couple of days in order to visit their colleges and universities .  guess what ?  china and india are making a major education investment in the future of their countries .  they are graduating more engineering students than we are today .  they are emphasizing the math and science and engineering programs while we are starting to cut back in these crucial education areas .  do people want a recipe for economic disaster ?  the republican budget and their lack of commitment for education is a sure way of getting us there .  mr. chairman , we are here today in this chamber to consider a fantasy budget .  it is ludicrous for the house leadership to move forward with this budget debate by ignoring the issues of the day merely to lock in huge tax cuts and offer damaging spending cuts to health care , education , veterans ' services and much more .  we need a better plan .  the democratic alternative that i support would reinstate the pay-as-you-go rule and balance the budget by 2012 , just as the baby boomers begin their massive retirement , while maintaining significant support for our national defense , veterans programs , education , and health care , which will help grow our economy and create jobs .  i do commend the president for recognizing the importance of the milk income loss compensation ( mllc ) program as a safety net for america 's dairy farmers and including an extension of the program in the administration 's proposed budget .  the republican budget , however , recklessly zeros out this important program , placing struggling family farmers across this nation in peril .  we know that the budget has not included the long-term cost of iraq , which already cost the country $ 275 billion , the estimated $ 5 trillion in the next 20 years for privatizing social security , and the full costs of the tax cuts .  in fact , it does not even include a full ten-year budget report .  the report lacks detail and leaves many programs vulnerable to steep cuts .  i would expect a complete and full report in a document as important as the united states budget .  as the campaign in iraq continues , our thoughts and prayers go out to the young men and women in uniform as well as to their families .  may they complete their mission quickly and decisively so they can return home soon and safe .  our veterans are returning home as we speak .  these are the fine men and women who fought to help bring democracy to iraq .  the budget plan calls for cuts in veterans ' health care benefits and reduces medical personal by more than 3 , 000 , along with cutting $ 9 million from other areas in the already overstretched va .  while the budget cuts to veterans ' programs , medicaid grants , and other important programs represent a very small amount of the overall budget , they will make a large difference to the families who depend on them .  the projected budget deficit of $ 427 billion for fy06 is revolting .  perhaps the worst aspect of this budget is that it is not paid for .  this is the classic recipe for exploding budget deficits as far as the eye can see ; it 's the height of fiscal irresponsibility occurring at exactly the wrong moment during our nation 's history when 80 million americans , the so-called baby boomers , are rapidly approaching retirement .  this is a demographic time bomb ready to explode .  that is why the republican budget proposal , in effect , constitutes taxation without representation because it will be our children and our grandchildren who will be asked to pay for this fiscal mess .  i could n't think of doing anything more unfair to them .  the children are our future , and we owe it to them to give them a stable foundation .  as the father of two little boys , i did not come to this congress to leave a legacy of debt for them or future generations to climb out of .  our democratic alternative , however , anticipates this demographic time bomb by achieving balance , while offering an economic stimulus plan now that is fair , quick , and responsible .  it supports our troops , but it also supports our nation 's veterans , our seniors , and our children 's education programs .  so i urge my colleagues to support the democratic substitute .  i would call on the leadership in the house to pull their budget resolution so that we can have an honest debate with honest figures , factoring in a realistic cost of the iraq operation .  mr. speaker , the vast education cuts brought before us today in this conference agreement and additionally in the budget reconciliation package that we may see today , are telling signs of the priorities of this congress .  these cuts demonstrate , far better than words ever could , that education is not a priority for this house .  this conference agreement provides a mere $ 11 million increase for head start , a pivotal program for preschool-aged children in low-income families across the nation .  at current funding levels , head start serves approximately half of the children eligible for its services , a wholly inadequate proportion .  this program , which has repeatedly been found to dramatically improve the academic performance of students deserves much more than an $ 11 million increase .  the conference agreement cuts school improvement funding by 6 percent and flat funds teacher quality grants .  these grants , which are used to recruit qualified teachers and support teacher development , are critically important to efforts to improve student achievement .  rather than strengthening the pell grant program and increasing access to higher education for low-income students , the conference agreement maintains the current maximum pell grant of $ 4 , 050 .  at this level , the maximum pell grant only covers 39 percent of tuition at the average four-year public college , making a mockery of its status as the foundation of student aid for the poorest students .  what are our priorities ?  the votes members cast today on this conference agreement and the budget reconciliation later today , will show their priorities .  do we place more value on tax cuts for the wealthy or the education of our students ?  i urge my colleagues to join me in prioritizing students ' well-being and vote no on this conference report and on the budget reconciliation package .  mr. chairman , today i rise in support of the spratt substitute and in opposition to h. con .  res. 95 , the house republican budget .  a budget is a blueprint of values and priorities -- a road map for where we want to move the country .  it is no surprise that the republican budget for fiscal year 2006 is more of the same : continued tax cuts for the wealthy paid for by slashing programs that rhode islanders depend on .  however , the spratt substitute contains thoughtful policies to balance the budget by 2012 without individual tax rate increases or harmful cuts to security , health care , education , veterans ' benefits , and other programs that improve the quality of life for rhode island 's working families .  while the republicans claim that budget cuts are needed to return to fiscal discipline , they forget their own policies caused today 's financial problems .  without the tax cuts for the wealthiest 1 percent of americans enacted since 2001 , our nation 's fiscal health would be much rosier , and the neediest and most vulnerable americans would not be forced to sacrifice .  their fiscal year 2006 budget proposal continues to move in the wrong direction , and next year 's deficit will likely be the largest in history , with at least $ 400 billion added to the national credit card .  how does this blueprint make us safer ?  while the department of homeland security receives an overall increase in funding , the budget largely follows the president 's request , which cuts needed resources for the first responders who risk their lives every day to protect us .  the spratt substitute contains $ 1.1 billion more than the republican budget for vital law enforcement programs such as cops , fire grants , and byrne grants .  these programs provide rhode island 's police and fire departments with the equipment and training to keep us safe .  how does this blueprint make us healthier ?  the republican budget requires $ 20 billion in cuts to medicaid .  this reduction will jeopardize a critical health care safety net for seniors , children and people with disabilities and shift more of the burden to states .  medicaid cuts would result in $ 80 million less for rhode island .  the loss of federal funding places an enormous burden on states like rhode island , by pressuring them to cut eligibility for medicaid .  my state has successfully leveraged federal medicaid dollars and currently offers coverage to many vulnerable , low-income pregnant women , parents of young children , and other groups not included in the federal mandate .  without medicaid , these people would likely join the increasing ranks of the uninsured .  lacking proper preventative how does this blueprint prepare children for the future ?  again , the republican budget matches the president 's proposal to eliminate 48 education programs that provide assistance with vocational education , education technology , civic education , and school counselors .  in contrast , the spratt substitute provides $ 4.5 billion in additional funding for no child left behind and other valuable programs such as student loans and school lunches , giving students the resources to succeed .  how does this blueprint honor those who serve our country in uniform ?  perhaps most egregiously during this time of war , the republicans want to cut veterans ' health care by $ 14 billion over five years , impose new fees , and increase copayments for veterans ' health care , adding an undue burden to those who have served their country so bravely .  the spratt substitute provides $ 17 billion over five years to provide veterans the services they have earned through their patriotism and sacrifice .  the republican blueprint does not make us safer or healthier , prepare children for the future , or honor veterans .  by continuing failed tax policies while cutting effective programs that rhode islanders depend on , their proposal is a misguided and unjust starting point .  as democrats show , it is possible to create a realistic blueprint that is fiscally responsible and builds on the needs of the american people .  i urge my colleagues to support the spratt substitute and reject h. con .  res. 95 .  mr. speaker , i rise today in opposition to the labor , health & amp ; human services and education appropriations bill before us .  this bill quite simply fails to address the priorities of the american people .  my concerns about specific cuts in this bill are many .  it cuts funding for no child left behind , an already vastly underfunded mandate ; it fails to offer even the small increase in the maximum pell grant that was established in the house bill ; and it sets a funding level for the national institutes of health that would decrease the number of federal research grants for the second year in a row .  the consequences of this bill are far-reaching .  major cutbacks in the areas of education and health care will have a tremendous economic impact on our nation .  i would like to speak briefly about what my constituents have told me is important to them .  rhode islanders , like all americans , are concerned about health care .  i have heard from many of them in recent weeks , in opposition to the devastating cuts to the title vii health professions programs .  while the administration has made it clear that community health centers are a priority to them , this bill nearly eliminates the very programs that health centers rely on to recruit nurses to work in areas that are facing acute professional shortages and train medical students to work with underserved populations .  with 45 million uninsured americans , we can not afford to eliminate programs targeted at meeting the needs of the uninsured or remove the support systems that exist for those doctors and nurses who are serving in areas where there is a shortage of professional health services .  rhode islanders are also concerned about unemployment .  with 7.4 million unemployed americans , this conference agreement cuts critical services for the unemployed , including job training grants and unemployment insurance offices .  adult training grants , which provide training and related education and employment services to economically disadvantaged adults , are cut by $ 31 million -- providing the lowest level of funding for these training grants in a decade .  youth training grants , which offer states the opportunity to develop on-the-job training and provide exposure to a wide variety of promising career paths for disadvantaged youth are cut by $ 36 million , offering 12 , 000 less at-risk youth the opportunity to earn a high school diploma and find meaningful employment .  when congress passed h. con .  res. 95 , the budget conference report , the republican leadership set the stage for these devastating cuts .  this legislation makes it clear that tax cuts for the wealthy will continue to be paid for by slashing programs that rhode islanders depend on .  i urge my colleagues to reject h.r. 3010 .  mr. speaker , i rise today in opposition to the labor , health and human services and education appropriations conference report before us .  one month ago , the house of representatives voted this bill down because it failed to address the priorities of the american people .  i am disappointed that the conferees have sent it back to us without significant changes .  before we voted on this bill in november , my constituents told me what was important to them .  rhode islanders , like all americans , are concerned about health care and the economy .  i believe the public sentiment on these issues accounted for the failure of this bill last month .  with more than 45 million uninsured americans and 7.4 million unemployed americans , now is not the time to cut health professions training grants by 51 percent or take $ 229 million away from the unemployment insurance and service programs .  yet , this second conference agreement once again proposes to do just that .  the consequences of ignoring these societal problems are far-reaching .  major cutbacks in the areas of education and health care will have a tremendous economic impact on our nation .  however , the republican leadership set the stage for cuts in these critical programs .  when congress passed h. con .  res. 95 , the budget conference report , they made it clear that tax cuts for the wealthy will continue to be paid for by slashing programs that rhode islanders depend on .  last month , i outlined my concerns about specific aspects of this bill -- cuts for no child left behind , an already underfunded mandate ; the failure to increase the maximum pell grant as included in the original house bill ; and providing insufficient funding for the national institutes of health , which would decrease the number of federal research grants for the second year in a row .  as these concerns have not been addressed in the second conference report , i urge my colleagues to reject h.r. 3010 -- again .  mr. speaker , i rise in strong opposition to the conference report of h.r. 3010 , the labor-health and human services-education appropriations bill for fiscal year 2006 .  this bill and the republican majority are out of touch with the needs of the american public .  this legislation is a question of priorities .  it is unconscionable that the republican majority prepares to fund $ 70 billion in tax cuts with cuts to key education , job training and health care programs .  with states across the country struggling to find the dollars to fully implement no child left behind , this bill would cut no child left behind funding by $ 784 million .  with college tuition costs rising , this bill would freeze pell grant funding at last year 's level .  with energy costs rising , this bill would also freeze low-income home energy assistance funding at last year 's level .  with 7.4 million americans out of work , this bill would cut $ 245 million for unemployment insurance and employment services programs .  additionally , this bill would provide the national institute of health , nih , which works to research and combat diseases like cancer and chronic illnesses such as alzheimer 's , parkinson 's and als , with the smallest funding level increase in 36 years .  this bill would also slash $ 31 million in funding for preventive health block grants and provides virtually no funding for new community health centers .  this bill fails to recognize the continued hiv/aids crisis by freezing funding on virtually all components of the ryan white aids care program , except aids drug assistance .  in total , this bill ignores the health needs of americans .  this bill does not reflect the priorities of the american people .  as members of congress , we can not abandon our obligations to our children , to our parents and future generations by cutting vital programs to finance tax cuts bigger than we can afford .  i urge my colleagues to reject the underlying bill and do better for the american people .  mr. chairman , first , let me just thank the gentleman for yielding me the time and for his leadership ; also to the gentleman from north carolina ( mr. watt )  , the chairman of our congressional black caucus , and to the gentleman from virginia ( mr. scott )  for their leadership in spearheading this very responsible alternative budget .  the cbc budget is not only fiscally responsible but it also reduces our federal deficit by $ 167 billion .  it rescinds the 2001 and 2003 tax cuts for individuals making more than $ 200 , 000 .  it closes tax loopholes and it drastically reduces funding for the ballistic missile defense program by about $ 7.8 billion .  the republican budget , quite frankly , fails to live up to any standard of morality that requires us to care for the least of these .  from port security to health care , the republican budget falls short on every count .  on the other hand , the congressional black caucus budget shows how national security priorities must include the economic security of all americans .  a strong america can not have desperate , vulnerable people .  as a member representing one of the largest ports in the country , it is clear to me that there needs to be significant increases in port security funding .  the cbc budget provides $ 500 million more for port and container security .  at a time when our ports remain one of our most vulnerable targets , allocating funds for container security is essential .  unfortunately , the republican budget fails to adequately support homeland security priorities .  our budget strengthens economic security priorities by easing disparities in housing and health care for example .  the president 's budget eliminated the community development block grant program which provides financial assistance towards improving housing and economic conditions in low- and moderate-income neighborhoods .  that is why i am very proud to support the cbc budget that provides $ 1.12 billion more than the republican budget to the cdbg initiative .  the president 's budget also eliminated the brownfields redevelopment program , but our budget adds $ 24 billion .  the brownfields redevelopment initiative provides important incentives for hazardous site cleanup and redevelopment .  it is crucial to the health and safety of our communities , especially our children .  the cbc budget also provides an additional $ 880 million for section 8 housing and $ 500 million more for hope vi .  all of these programs are crucial to ensuring the economic security of the most vulnerable americans .  the cbc budget also restores approximately $ 50 million in funding to the public housing drug elimination program .  it allocates $ 490 million to the minority health initiative and $ 500 million for community health centers .  these programs are vital to providing primary health care for our minority communities .  mr. chairman , the republican budget punishes people .  it punishes them by making them choose between their health or their housing .  the cbc budget allows people to have access to both .  the republican budget erodes our economic security .  it weakens our community .  it leaves our infrastructure crumbling .  the republican support of outdated weapons systems , wasteful defense programs , reckless tax cuts , and irresponsible deficit spending relegates economic security priorities to the back burner .  i urge my colleagues to join me in supporting the congressional black caucus budget .  mr. chairman , i would like to thank again the gentleman from virginia ( mr. scott )  and the gentleman from north carolina , chairman of our congressional black caucus , for their stellar leadership in spearheading this responsible budget .  it should not be an alternative .  this is the budget we should be voting on .  the republican budget is fiscally reckless and morally irresponsible .  the cbc budget , if we think about it , really is a faith-based budget .  the cbc budget is not only fiscally responsible , but it is also morally responsible .  the republican budget fails to live up to any standard of morality that speaks to the least of these .  on the other hand , the congressional black caucus budget acknowledges that in order to have a strong america , we must have all americans who are not vulnerable .  our people can not be desperate if , in fact , we want a strong america .  the republican budget cuts housing , housing for the disabled by 50 percent .  where is the morality in that ?  that is turning our backs on the disabled .  the cbc budget not only restores these cuts but adds $ 120 million for housing the disabled .  the republican budget is an immoral budget , if one asks me .  vote for the cbc budget because it is a faith-based budget that takes care of the least of these .  mr. speaker , i reluctantly rise in opposition to the fiscal year 2006 labor-hhs conference report .  however , i wanted to express my sincere appreciation to the gentleman from ohio ( mr. regula )  , the ranking member , the gentleman from wisconsin ( mr. obey )  , and their staffs for their hard work on this legislation .  the bill should address many of our most important priorities , from education funding , worker training , to biomedical research and public health activities .  unfortunately , it falls short .  for the first time in 10 years , the bill actually cuts funding for the department of education .  the bill provides the smallest increase for the national institutes of health in 36 years .  despite the fact that college costs have increased by 34 percent since 2001 , the bill freezes the maximum pell grant for the fourth year in a row .  at a time when states are being asked to bear an increasingly larger burden for preparing for and responding to public health emergencies , this bill cuts funds for state and local health departments by $ 127 million .  and the bill includes a rescission of $ 125 million from new york state worker 's compensation programs intended for sick and injured workers from september 11 .  the president made a $ 20 billion commitment to the people of new york following september 11 .  the rescission breaks that promise .  while these and other programs are on the chopping block today , the bill provides a $ 10 million increase for abstinence-until-marriage programs , despite mounting evidence of the scientific and medical inaccuracy of their curricula and ineffective results .  mr. speaker , i also want to express my continued concerned with the weldon refusal clause included in this bill .  for over 30 years , there have been federal laws that allow doctors , nurses , and hospitals to refuse to provide abortion services because of their religious beliefs .  however , this provision extends that protection to hmos , insurance companies , and makes no exception for medical emergencies .  states that attempt to protect access to health services can be denied all of their federal health , education , and labor funding .  my colleagues , we had an alternative to this misguided and dangerous language .  the senate bill contained a provision that would protect doctors ' consciences while ensuring that women still have access to the services and referrals they need .  unfortunately , the house majority rejected the senate 's reasonable compromise in favor of maintaining a policy designed to limit women 's access to reproductive health services .  mr. speaker , it is because of these flaws that i simply can not support this final conference report .  mr. chairman , i yield myself such time as i may consume .  as a member of the joint economic committee , i am pleased to speak on the economic goals and policies reflected in the budget .  when it comes to the economy , this is a record-setting administration .  the problem is , the administration is setting records for debt and deficits .  we now have the largest debt , the largest budget deficit , and the largest trade deficit in the history of our nation .  republicans have become the party of debt and deficits .  even worse , the administration continues to repeat the same economic mantras even as experience continues to prove them wrong and more wrong .  this administration has turned a surplus projected in january of 2001 to be almost $ 400 billion by 2004 into a budget deficit of over $ 400 billion .  and , mr. chairman , there is no end in sight .  the budget deficit for last month set another record as the first time the budget deficit has gone over $ 100 billion in a single month in the history of our country .  the administration has raised the debt limit three times to a record $ 7.6 trillion , which means $ 26 , 000 of debt is owed for every man , woman , and child in america .  this week the lead story is our nation 's trade deficit ; and to no one 's surprise , this deficit is breaking records too .  data released today by the department of commerce shows that the trade deficit in 2004 was at an all-time high , nearly $ 666 billion , 5.7 percent of our gdp .  another unfortunate record .  the all-time monthly trade deficit of more than $ 59 billion was set in november , and the total for january was just barely shy of setting a new record .  the administration keeps saying that the ever-weaker dollar will correct our trade deficit for the last several years , and this has proven to be wrong .  our deficits are soaring because it is the policy of this administration to spend money we do not have and to borrow from foreign sources to cover ourselves .  since the administration is content importing money lent by foreign banks to cover the cost of foreign goods , we are increasingly at the mercy of our overseas benefactors .  as of january , foreign governments own $ 1.2 trillion of our public debt , the highest it has ever been .  what if one day they decide to stop propping up our spend-and-borrow habit ?  we had a tiny taste of that recently when south korea hinted that they would not buy more dollars and the markets trembled .  america is the greatest economic engine in the world .  we should never build our economic system on a foundation of foreign loans .  any day that foundation could become a house of cards .  there is absolutely no evidence in the budget resolution before us in the house or in the policies of this budget that the majority understands or even cares about these risks to our economy .  this budget uses smoke and mirrors to give the allusion of cutting the deficit in half , but it leaves out necessary actions such as fixing the alternative minimum tax , which is hurting the middle class more and more and must be dealt with sooner rather than later .  this budget is also mean spirited .  in order to preserve the republican tax cuts , the budget cuts programs for americans who are struggling just to make it in what for them is a very difficult economy .  mr. chairman , this president continues to have the worst job record since president hoover and the great depression .  even worse , the gains the economy has made benefit the bottom line of large corporations at the expense of ordinary hard-working americans .  the gap between the haves and have-nots is growing , and that should be of great concern to everyone in america .  the administration continues to say the economy is recovering , but how good a recovery can it be if ordinary american families can buy less and less with their paychecks ?  over the period of job gains since may of 2003 , the average hourly earnings of workers in nonfarm industries has actually fallen by .6 percent after inflation .  the administration 's budget does not even address the biggest and largest budget buster of them all : the president 's plan to privatize social security .  as a new study by the joint economic committee democratic staff shows , the president 's plan for private accounts would create $ 5 trillion of new debt in the first 20 years , but it would do absolutely nothing to address social security 's solvency and would do nothing to increase national saving .  in fact , it would weaken the solvency of social security and probably reduce national saving , exactly the opposite of what is needed .  mr. chairman , i think the president 's plan for social security is a perfect example of what is wrong with the economic goals and policies of this administration .  it manufactures a false crisis around a real , but manageable , problem and then offers a proposal that makes things worse without even addressing the original problem .  as i have seen in my own town meetings , americans understand that privatization of social security is a bad idea .  we need honest budgeting and an honest economic policy if we are to foster true economic prosperity to ordinary hard-working americans .  mr. chairman , i reserve the balance of my time .  mr. chairman , how much time remains ?  mr. speaker , i rise today to oppose the second fy 2006 labor , health human services and education conference report .  i opposed the first conference report last month because it inadequately funded virtually every area of need and slashed $ 1.5 billion from our country 's critical health , human services , education and labor programs .  this new , but definitely not improved conference report slashes $ 1.6 billion from these programs actually increasing the total cuts to these agencies by $ 90 million .  while i was pleased to see increases in the title vii programs and other important health programs , this bill did not provide new funds for these programs , it simply robbed peter to pay paul .  in this case , the republican leadership has apparently decided that its more important to provide federal funding for viagra and other erectile dysfunction drugs than it is to fully prepare ourselves for the threat of a pandemic flu , such as the asian bird flu .  the new conference report eliminates $ 120 million for pandemic flu preparedness in order to fund these increases with the promise that they will make up for it in other bills .  however , you ca n't cram for a pandemic .  we need to have the funds in place to prepare our public health system for the threat of pandemic influenza now .  further , the republicans have been considering making an additional 1 percent cut to all of the programs funded by this bill .  if they do that , it will double the cuts in the bill , bringing the total cuts to $ 3 billion .  that is $ 3 billion less for critical education , job training , health , and energy assistance programs .  when you combine these cuts with the republican spending cuts bill that they passed as a part of reconciliation , programs that help the poor , the sick , the elderly and other americans who need our help the most will be cut by $ 48 billion over the next 5 years .  when you compare these massive cuts for the most vulnerable to the incredible $ 56 billion republican tax cut giveaway for millionaires that republicans passed last week , there is no question where the republicans priorities are .  when in the span of 2 weeks , the republicans give the top 1 percent of americans who are millionaires an extra $ 32 , 000 a year and cut unemployment insurance and employment service offices to help the unemployed by $ 229 million and cut head start by $ 11.2 million and cut community college training grants by 50 percent and cut the international assistance grants to eradicate child labor by $ 20 million it is clear what the republican priorities are .  while the bush administration has never fully funded the no child left behind act , this bill goes a step further by actually cutting total federal education funding for the first time in a decade -- cutting no child left behind so that it is now $ 14 billion below the authorized level , slashing special education , safe and drug free schools , education technology grants and freezing the maximum pell grant award for the fourth year in a row despite rising tuition costs .  at a time when we are trying to prepare our country for the aging of the baby boomers and threat of pandemic flu , this bill cuts funding for healthcare .  it cuts the cdc 's budget by $ 249 million and provides the smallest percentage increase to nih in three decades .  and if the republicans make a 1 percent cut to all of the programs , nih will get a real cut .  the bill before us today would also freeze funding for the low-income home energy assistance , liheap , at $ 2.18 billion , counting both basic formula grants and emergency grants -- the fy 2005 level .  liheap serves about 5 million households , the majority of which have at least one member who is elderly , disabled , or a child under age 5. the conference report is freezing liheap even though consumers are expected to pay 52 percent more for natural gas , 30 percent more for home heating oil , and 11 percent more for electricity this winter .  the republicans wo n't fully fund liheap because they have other priorities .  their budget makes that quite clear .  tax cuts for millionaires , tax cuts for the giant oil companies , weakening environmental regulations for their business cronies .  those are the priorities for the republican-controlled congress .  funding for education , health care and low-income home energy assistance so that seniors on fixed incomes , and poor families can heat their homes this winter , are not their priorities .  i urge a `` no '' vote on this bill .  mr. chairman , the budget declares our nation 's priorities in black and white , and this budget makes america black and blue .  republicans have squandered the surplus , forcing america to go country to country in search of money to prop up what can not stand on its own fiscal integrity .  they present charts and graphs .  they talk about acting in america 's best interest when , in fact , we have before us a budget that rewards america 's special interests .  we are deep in debt and growing deeper because republicans have so many special interests to thank with your money .  the price tag is mind-boggling , but that is outdone by the people republicans have targeted to bear the burden of their fiscal recklessness .  the rich get the gain ; america 's most vulnerable get the pain .  as ranking democrat on the human resources subcommittee , i asked my staff to examine where past republican practices might be in this politically engineered budget crisis .  $ 18.7 billion is coming out of the committee on ways and means .  none of it out of social security .  none out of medicare .  what is left ?  poor people and children .  two million of our nation 's poorest families will see draconian cuts in temporary assistance for needy families .  child care assistance for low-income working families could be eliminated .  social service block grants could be cut 60 percent , and federal assistance for foster care could be slashed by 80 percent .  and if that is not enough , let us take $ 5 billion worth of food stamps out of children 's mouths .  it is america 's most vulnerable who will pay for the republican intention to extend tax breaks for capital gains , with 75 percent of the benefit going to people earning over $ 200 , 000 a year .  what in the world is going on ?  do republicans intend to starve the poor so they can feed the rich ?  budgets reflect values .  we heard a lot about values , family values , all this stuff .  i guess feeding kids is not a value .  and i suppose this budget reflects the republican majority .  those values can be summed up in one word , bankrupt , just like this budget .  i urge a `` no '' on this resolution .  mr. chairman , more needs to be done to address the ongoing global challenges of health , poverty , disease , and disasters so that we can end the inequities in foreign policy .  therefore , the cbc budget increases funding for these core development accounts with the overall goals of reducing poverty disparities and improving quality of life .  there is $ 3.7 billion in the cbc budget for global aids , which is $ 500 million more than the president 's budget .  that is an increase of $ 900 million from last year and will support prevention , care and treatment for thousands more people .  foreign aid to africa and the caribbean is increased by $ 250 million in the congressional black caucus budget to allow developing countries to participate in the global economy .  these funds support strategic priorities in the caribbean region , improve good governance and reduce corruption , increase economic growth and free trade and reduce narcotics trafficking .  public health and preventable illness initiatives is increased by $ 250 million in the cbc budget .  more than one-third of the children in africa are malnourished .  in the last 10 years , approximately 2 million children have been killed in armed conflicts .  overall disparity -- nearly 1.3 billion people around the world live in poverty and do not have safe drinking water ; more than one-third of the world 's children are malnourished ; within the last ten years , approximately two million children have been killed in armed conflicts , many after being forced to be child soldiers ; many poor countries spend 30 % -40 % of their annual budgets on repaying their foreign-held debt ( often more than they spend on health and education combined ) ; and horrific conditions can lead individuals to become more disaffected and susceptible to recruitment by terrorist organizations .  hiv/aids solution -- aids is a global humanitarian disaster that demands robust leadership from the united states .  according to the need based numbers advanced by unaids , the stop tb partnership , and roll back malaria , we believe the us should provide $ 6.7 billion next year .  and at least $ 1.5 billion in funding this year for the global fund to operate efficiently and effectively .  mr. chairman , i thank the gentleman from south carolina ( mr. spratt )  for yielding me this time and for his work in developing a budget for all americans .  every year the administration and congress are taxed with developing a budget that reflects our nation 's priorities in spending , priorities that reflect our country 's values .  unfortunately , the budget resolution we have before us , and the values it represents insults the true values of the american people , given the extensive cuts to first responders , community policing , veterans benefits , health care , and education funding .  under the republican leadership the entire budget process has become a complete fraud on the american people .  this budget adds more than $ 4 trillion to the deficit in the next 10 years , without even including the enormous costs that have been left out of the budget .  it is past time for this house to be honest and restore fiscal responsibility to this process and to the nation , the same fiscal responsibility that each of our constituents face when they try to balance their household and business budgets .  unfortunately , this budget shows that the republican congress does not share the values of the american people .  what type of values would cut funding to the fire act grant program which helps meet the basic needs of firefighters by 30 percent ?  firefighters on the front lines of the war on terror in new jersey stand to lose $ 4 million under this resolution , which means they will have less protective clothing , fewer portable radios than they need to protect our citizens .  what type of values would slash funding to the cop program by 95 percent , a program that has put over 4 , 800 police officers on the street in new jersey ?  in doing so , this budget dismantles a critical instrument in new jersey 's fight against crime .  what type of values would raise health costs for many of the over 620 , 000 veterans in new jersey , increasing drug copayments and imposing new enrollment fees that will cost veterans more than $ 2 billion over 5 years and drive more than 200 , 000 veterans out of the system entirely ?  what type of values would cut discretionary health programs by 6 percent and slash medicaid by billions of dollars ?  new jersey would lose more than $ 100 million per year in federal medicaid funding , enough funding to provide health coverage to 6 , 400 seniors or 34 , 000 children .  and what type of values would underfund education and , specifically , the no child left behind act by over $ 12 billion , creating a 4-year deficit between what was promised and what was actually delivered of $ 39 billion ?  if this budget passes , over 53 , 000 children in new jersey will go without promised help in reading and math and 34 , 000 will no longer be able to enroll in the afterschool programs that not only keep kids safe but also boost academic achievement .  that is why the democratic substitute will restore fiscal responsibility to secure our homeland , provide for america 's seniors and veterans , fund education initiatives to guarantee our children 's future success in an ever increasingly competitive world and lay the foundation for a society that truly reflects our values and our commitment to a better more prosperous and stronger america .  i urge my colleagues to support the democratic substitute and vote down the woefully inadequate republican budget .  mr. speaker , today we have some very clear choices .  it is not every day that we face such black and white options -- often the issues we debate on this floor have many shades of gray .  but today , there is no confusion , there is no muddying of the issues , and there is no way to mask the harm this bill would do : cut education spending for the first time in a decade , slash funding for worker and youth training , and provide no increase for home heating assistance for low-income families .  today , we have a choice .  we can pass a bill that will be detrimental to our children 's future ; that will hurt students in need of financial assistance to go to college ; that will not help families struggling to pay their heating bills ; and that will severely hinder research and preventive health efforts .  or we can reject this bill and demand something better for american families .  we have heard that this bill is the result of priorities .  well , this is one point where i agree with my republican colleagues .  this bill is the result of priorities .  the wrong priorities , mr. speaker .  when the republican leadership of this congress is content to spend more on tax cuts than on the entire department of education or labor ; when we can spend $ 70 billion in tax cuts but can not provide children the access to technology or advanced science and math instruction they need to compete in today 's world ; when we can give millionaires a break but can not provide students even a meager increase in pell grants to help them pay for the rising cost of college ; when we can shell out billions in tax breaks to oil companies but can not help those in need prepare for what is expected to be one of the costliest winters yet ; it is clear that republicans have the wrong priorities in mind .  mr. speaker , our nation 's children should not have their education shortchanged because the administration had to scrounge around for a few million here and there to pay for tax cuts that benefit a small minority in this country .  at a time when people are losing faith in their government and their leaders , when they are asking for honesty and looking for answers to their everyday needs , this bill provides no answers .  this bill tells them to go it alone .  mr. speaker , america deserves better than this .  vote no on this conference report that shortchanges and unfairly punishes everyday americans .  mr. speaker , i thank the gentleman from wisconsin ( mr. obey )  for all of his work on the legislation , and i thank the chairman of the subcommittee for all of his work .  like so many others who have already spoken , it is clear they were not dealt a very fair hand , or the hand that they needed , to take care of needs of this country .  i am most disappointed in the funding of no child left behind .  at a time when school districts are entering into the most expensive part of no child left behind , when they are being required to restructure entire school districts , entire schools , when they are trying to meet the demand and the requirement of a law that we have a highly qualified teacher in every classroom , which requires substantial retraining of teachers , the attracting of new teachers , the paying of incentives for teachers to go to the most difficult schools , at that very time the federal government walks away from the commitment under no child left behind .  the federal government starts to decrease its participation when the states and the school districts and our schools need it more than ever .  it really shows such little confidence in the future of our young children .  it shows such little confidence in the ability of our school districts to restructure themselves to meet the demands being placed upon them .  we see cuts here in technology grants that are absolutely essential for the future education of our children .  we see teacher quality grants cut .  those are absolutely essential to improve the quality of our teachers in our classroom so they can engage in that kind of professionalism .  what is most startling is that these cuts in education come at a time when , i am not saying put more money in education , mr. obey  is not telling you that , but the american business community is telling you this is the most crucial thing you can do .  the american electronics association , made up of some of the most successful companies in the history of this country , their number one priority was to fully fund no child left behind .  the semiconductor association : fully fund no child left behind , put money into graduate school education , put money into highly qualified teachers .  and this budget goes in exactly the other direction .  we do not have the confidence that is necessary and demanded of this country in the future and the confidence in these young people and the necessary investments to be made in them .  it is so discouraging to see the lack of confidence in our young people that this budget demonstrates .  mr. chairman , i rise today in opposition to the fy06 budget resolution , and reluctant opposition to the democratic alternative .  unfortunately , i do not believe that the choices before us today adequately confront the serious deficiencies in our budget process .  the congressional budget process is broken , and badly in need of real reforms that will reinstate fiscal responsibility into congress .  the blue dog coalition , of which i am a member , has introduced a twelve-step plan that takes the necessary first steps toward reforming our budget process .  while i support many of the provisions in the democratic budget , including a partial restoration of `` pay-as-you-go '' [ paygo ] rules and level funding for domestic priorities such as education , veterans ' health care , and local law enforcement , i am disappointed that this alternative did not include any of the blue dog budget process reforms .  the blue dog twelve-step plan would stop congress 's recent borrow-and-spend practices by reinstating paygo rules for the entire budget , including spending and revenue measures .  budget enforcement rules that apply to only certain parts of the budget will not have a significant impact on our rising deficits , as federal reserve chairman alan greenspan mentioned in his recent testimony before the house budget committee .  additionally , the blue dog budget process reform plan would : create a `` rainy day '' fund for emergency spending , which forty-five states currently have ; require a roll call vote on any bill calling for more than $ 50 million in new spending ; repeal the house rule that allows the house to avoid a direct , up-or-down vote on debt limit increases ; and require cost estimates by the congressional budget office [ cbo ] for every bill that congress votes on .  these reasonable , common-sense reforms are necessary for a functioning budget process and long overdue .  the fiscal situation in our country is now out of control , and only tough budget discipline will get us back on track .  on february 17 , 2004 , the national debt of the united states exceeded $ 7 trillion for the first time in our country 's history .  one year later , our national debt is $ 7.7 trillion .  in the past year , our country has added $ 700 billion to our national debt .  the out-of-control rise in our national debt over the last year is just another sign of the astonishing fiscal turnaround that our country has experienced over the last four years , and another sign of the terrible fiscal position that we now find ourselves in .  in 2001 , we had ten-year projected surpluses of $ 5.6 trillion [ 2002-2011 ] .  now , over that same time period , we have likely ten-year deficits of $ 3.9 trillion .  that 's a $ 9.5 trillion reversal in our ten-year fiscal outlook .  whether intentional or otherwise , our country 's current fiscal policies are depriving the federal government of future revenue at a time when we ought to be preparing for an unprecedented demographic shift that will strain social security and medicare .  our current fiscal irresponsibility will eventually land squarely on the shoulders of our children and grandchildren , who will be forced to pay back the debt we are accumulating today with interest .  this `` debt tax '' that we are imposing on our children and grandchildren can not be repealed , and can only be reduced if we take responsible steps now to improve our situation .  both parties need to work together in a bipartisan fashion to bring our budget back into balance so we can avoid the higher long-term interest rates and weakened dollar that are a consequence of rising deficits and a high national debt .  this fiscal year alone , interest on the national debt is expected to rise to $ 178 billion , and the administration projects that that figure will increase to $ 211 billion during the next fiscal year .  to put that figure in perspective , projected interest on our national debt next year will be $ 75 billion more than projected spending on education , public health , health research , and veterans ' benefits combined [ $ 138 billion ] .  in addition to assuming an ever-larger share of our annual budgets , the interest on our debt , and the debt itself , is increasing our reliance on foreign borrowers , which will weaken our position in the world and increase the risk that another nation will be able to assert greater leverage over america .  finally , our deficits and debt threaten the social security and medicare programs that have lifted so many of our seniors out of poverty and helped sustain the strongest middle class in history .  unfortunately , the administration 's fy06 budget , which was released last month , would spend $ 2.6 trillion of the projected social security surplus over the next ten years .  with a projected 75 year unfunded liability of $ 3.7 trillion , both parties in congress need to work together to address social security 's solvency problem .  it is time for congress to stop playing games with our national debt , with social security , and with our kids and grandkids ' futures and take a commonsense , bipartisan approach to solve our budget problems .  mr. chairman , i thank my friends , the gentleman from new york ( mr. sweeney )  ; the gentleman from south carolina ( mr. spratt )  ; and the gentleman from kentucky ( mr. whitfield )  .  what has become of us as a country , selling these horses off for horse meat to be eaten on the other side of our oceans ?  the wild horse is an icon of american history .  the gentleman from iowa asked what is the difference between a horse and a steer and a hog ?  the horse is an icon along with the bald eagle .  what is the difference between a bald eagle and a pigeon or a turkey ?  and if you do not know the difference , we can not explain it to you .  shakespeare once said that `` horses are as full of spirit as the month of may and as gorgeous as the sun in midsummer '' .  does everything have to be converted to the bottom line ?  there are so many alternatives to slaughtering these beautiful creatures that are on public lands .  we used to have 1 million at the turn of the century .  we are down to 35 , 000 wild horses on public lands .  that is sad and wrong .  we have responsibility over these beautiful creatures .  they ought not be cut up in such an inhumane way , and shipped overseas for people who want to eat horse meat .  that is not what we are about as a country .  there are so many other alternatives .  we can use animal contraception methods .  we could reopen over 100 herd management areas that the bureau of land management has closed .  we could start centers such as the one i saw this weekend , 61 horses brought from the wild west for adoption .  they came from nevada and wyoming and california , beautiful creatures .  people in the east coast are adopting them .  there are so many things we could be doing rather than selling these beautiful creatures for horse meat .  we are not just about dollars and cents .  we are about the things that made our country great .  the wild horse is one of those things .  it inspires poetry ; and if my colleagues do not understand that , i guess we ca n't very well communicate why this is so important to us .  but i trust the majority of this congress knows what we are talking about .  mr. chairman , i thank the gentleman from south carolina ( mr. spratt )  for yielding me this time .  mr. chairman , i would ask the members on the republican side of the aisle this evening to find one republican mayor in america , one , who favors what they are about to do to the community development block grant program .  the community development block grant program has been extraordinarily successful .  it has had broad bipartisan support for as long as i can remember .  and we ask , how did that come about ?  it came about because there was a republican president named richard nixon who created what he believed to be the new federalism , and there were overwhelming majorities of democrats in the congress who accepted that leadership with this simple idea , that , yes , washington , because from time to time they exacerbate problems at the local level , and if that was to be the case , how would we funnel some resources to the local government but allow , and listen to this because it is a critical aspect of the community development block grant program , local decision-making , meaning that the so what does this congress decide to do with this extraordinarily popular and successful initiative ?  they are going to cut it .  they are going to cut it back .  i do not think we can find a republican governor in america who supports what they are about to do with the community development block grant program .  and what is it used for ?  overwhelmingly , it is used for housing .  the number of substandard units of housing in america that have been brought back to life because of cdbg allocations is most impressive .  and then let us throw in the next part of what cdbg does .  it provides ample opportunity for economic development .  they might expedite the paving of a roadway to an industrial park so that there can be new business growth and new job opportunities in cities and towns across america .  and what else might they do with it ?  there are all kinds of public parks across this country that have succeeded because of community development block grant programs .  some of them in the lowest income neighborhoods of america .  and do my colleagues know what else ?  some of them in great middle-income neighborhoods across this nation as well .  as a member of the alumni association that is exceedingly small in this congress , called former mayors , i might point out that if we assembled mayors across america , the united states conference of mayors , we would be hard pressed to go into that room and find one mayor who supports what they are about to do to the most popular domestic urban program called community development block grant money .  madam chairman , i thank the gentleman for yielding me this time .  let me simply say that i think the chairman has produced a fair process .  he has treated the minority fairly and i very much appreciate that , but i believe the bill fails this country in many fundamental ways , and that failure is a direct result of the republican budget resolution which requires this committee to cut $ 11.7 billion below the amount needed to maintain current services for domestic discretionary programs .  as the gentleman from texas ( mr. delay )  , the majority leader , said 2 weeks ago , `` this is the budget that the american people voted for when they returned a republican house , a republican senate and a republican white house last november. '' i think that is true .  this is exactly what it means .  the republicans in this house voted by a vote of 218 to 212 to adopt that budget resolution .  not one single democrat voted for that budget resolution , because we recognized the damage that would be done by it .  now , we are told by members of the majority side we have limited resources .  we absolutely agree with that .  that is why this house should never have voted to eliminate all taxes on estates of over $ 7 million .  it should never have voted to give persons who make more than a million dollars $ 140 , 000 tax cuts next year and do it all with borrowed money because the result of that vote has been a $ 400 million cut in epa programs to improve the quality of our air and our water .  the result has been a 40 percent cut in the clean water revolving fund .  we have $ 388 billion worth of needs at the community level to fix sewer and water systems ; and yet this program is cut by 40 percent in this bill .  the damage done by this bill can not be fully understood unless we take a look at it in a broader context .  this is a great and growing country .  when i came to this congress , there were 203 million people in this country .  today , there are 282 million .  that is a 34 percent increase .  we are going to have another 26 million increase between now and 2010 .  when i came , there were 108 million cars in america .  today , there are 231 million cars .  that means more pollution .  it means more congestion .  it means more pressure on our national parks .  it means more pressure on the part of real estate developers .  it means more pressure on our sewer and water programs .  in the face of that new pressure , what are we getting out of this bill ?  we are getting a 34 percent reduction in the funding for the main bill that will help us to clean up our sewer and water problem .  i think that is an incredibly myopic decision .  in the teeth of all of that pressure , we are crippling epa .  we talk about how happy we are to see a slight increase in the national parks budget ; but in fact , there are still 720 positions in the national park service that continue to remain unfunded .  we have 200 of the 544 wildlife refuges that have no staff whatsoever .  in the teeth of all that expanded pressure , what do we get ?  despite this bill , we still have a $ 5 billion backlog in maintenance for the park service , a $ 13 billion backlog for our national forests .  i would like to see , for instance , this bill enable us to buy precious land at pope 's creek on the property where george washington was born before a real estate developer can grab it and turn it into condos ; but we are not going to be able to do that because this bill , for the first time in the 36 years i have been a member of this house , zero-funds land acquisition programs at both the state and the federal level .  we ought not to do that .  for two generations , we have had a bipartisan consensus behind certain minimal actions in the environmental area , especially in the area of clean water .  this bill unravels that consensus because it means we can talk a good game in terms of cleaning up our water and our air , but we are not going to put our dollars where our mouth is .  so i think , as the gentleman from texas ( mr. delay )  says , `` this is the budget that the american people voted for when they returned a republican house , a republican senate , and a republican white house last november. '' if you are satisfied with the results of this bill today , vote for it .  i intend to vote against it .  i think it is a disaster for the environmental consensus that we have built up with such hard work for so long .  mr. chairman , as i indicated earlier , i intend to vote for this bill because i think the gentleman from texas has done a reasonable job , given the limitations placed on him by the budget resolution .  having said that , i do not want anyone to think that i am enthusiastic about the result .  i am not .  i think that after we pass this bill today the food and drug administration will still be left with inadequate authority to protect the public health from dangerous drugs .  the fda will still have a terrible time trying to provide new labels for drugs which had been initially approved but which later had been found to be , in some cases , a threat to public health .  this congress has an obligation to fix that .  it is being prevented from fixing that by the rule that passed earlier today .  secondly , i want to say that i think the bill is inadequate in a number of areas .  i think that with respect to having a full-fledged animal identification program to help protect the public health against problems like mad cow disease , i think that the funding for that is inadequate .  i certainly think that funding for rural sewer and water is grossly inadequate .  there is probably more demand in my district for rural sewer and water grants than any other program in the federal budget .  when one lives in a community in which more than 50 percent of the households are headed either by someone over 65 or by a woman who has no long work history outside of the home , that means that that community has very little tax base and very little economic ability to meet environmental standards for water and sewer , and the congress is doing precious little to help those communities .  i think we are also very negligent with respect to rural housing , and i think that this bill is totally inadequate with respect to international food aid .  there are a number of other concerns i have about it .  but those are the main ones that i would focus on at this moment .  i will vote for the bill because i think the major fault for the inadequacies of the bill lies with the committee on the budget , not with the gentleman who produced the bill .  but i think members need to understand this bill is not adequate to meet the economic development needs of rural america .  it is not adequate to meet the environmental needs of rural america .  it is not adequate to meet the public health requirements of the american people .  i wish it were .  maybe some day it will .  mr. chairman , i have no objection .  mr. speaker , i yield myself 11 minutes .  mr. speaker , the gentleman from ohio is my friend .  i have a great deal of respect for him , and i know he tries to do the best job with the tools he is given .  the problem is that he has been given a totally inadequate set of tools .  `` this is the budget that you get when you elect a republican white house , a republican house of representatives , and a republican senate. '' i did not say that .  the former majority leader of the republican caucus said that , the gentleman from texas ( mr. delay )  .  this is the day when the price of republican tax cuts for the wealthy becomes quite clear , on this bill and on the bill that will follow , the reconciliation bill .  this is the day when this congress chooses to walk away from its investments : obligations in education , health care , job training and the like .  this is the bill which shortchanges the social gospel .  this is the day that we pass legislation that chooses to make the lives of the most privileged among us quite a bit more pleasant because of their tax cuts while at the same time we are making the lives of the poor just a little bit more desperate .  this is a growing country .  it has growing problems .  it has growing opportunities .  if this bill does not grow with it , then we lose ground ; and we are certainly losing ground under this bill today .  this is the bill for education , health , social services , worker protection programs .  this is the guts of the federal effort to try to see to it that , regardless of one 's station in life , people have the greatest possible opportunity to get ahead .  yet , this bill is $ 1.5 billion on a program-for-program basis , once you cut out the funny accounting , this is a bill which is $ 1.5 billion below last year .  the department of labor , funding in that department : $ 37 million below the house bill , $ 193 million below the senate bill .  there are 7.5 million americans out of work .  yet the bill cuts $ 437 million out of training and employment services .  that is the lowest level of adult training grants in a decade .  this bill also cuts the community college initiative , the president 's initiative for community colleges , an effort to train workers for high-skill , high-paying jobs .  it cuts that effort by $ 125 million and rescinds $ 125 million from funds provided last year , denying the help that the president was talking about giving to 100 , 000 americans .  state unemployment insurance and employment service offices are cut by $ 245 million , eliminating help for 1.9 million people .  the international labor affairs bureau will certainly have a hard time protecting american workers from being undercut by child and slave labor abroad after this program has been cut by 20 percent .  in the health and human services area , this bill cuts health care to the poor and underserved rural areas of the country .  it eliminates the community access program that helps coordinate services and programs to provide health care to people who do not have it .  this bill cuts by 69 percent health professions training .  this bill cuts by 73 percent funding for rural health outreach .  we have only about 10 percent of physicians in america who practice in rural areas , and yet one-fourth of the u.s. population lives in those areas .  we have huge shortages of health care providers in urban , underserved areas as well , but training grants for health care professionals are cut by $ 206 million .  we have the maternal/child health care block grant .  that program is cut by 20 percent below fiscal 2002 levels , and we have a 24 percent cut in block grants for state health departments .  and then , all of us are going to run home and brag about how much we have done to prepare the country for public health disasters .  my friend talked about the national institutes of health .  we have the smallest increase for nih in 36 years , and under that budget , because funding for nih does not keep pace with inflation , we will actually see 500 fewer research grants coming out of nih than we would have seen 2 years ago .  we have effectively ended the president 's initiative to expand the number and the capacity of community health centers around the country , $ 238 million less than the president requested .  for the low-income heating assistance program , our oil companies , one company , $ 10 billion profit the last quarter .  we expect to see natural gas prices rise 46 percent , home heating oil prices rise 28 percent , and yet we freeze the program that is supposed to provide help to people to pay their bills so they do not have to choose between heating and eating , and we only serve 15 percent of the persons who are eligible to be served under that program .  education : this is the first cut in education funding in a decade .  education programs under the no child left behind rubric are cut by $ 784 million below last year .  that is $ 13 billion below the authorization , and on a cumulative basis , it is some $ 40 billion short of what we promised we would have provided these past years since we passed no child left behind .  title i is up $ 100 million .  that is in comparison to a $ 600 million increase that came from that well-known `` liberal '' george w. bush .  special education , it is up $ 100 million in comparison to the $ 508 million request from the president of the united states .  because we mandated that local school districts provide service to special education children , we are supposed to be providing 40 percent of the cost .  this bill actually reduces the federal share of that cost from 18.6 to 18 percent .  that is going in the wrong direction .  the comprehensive school reform program , totally wiped out .  the goodling even start program , named after bill goodling , the former republican chairman of the education committee , cut by 56 percent .  education technology cut by 45 percent , and that comes on top of a 28 percent cut that was made last year .  we cut safe and drug-free schools by 20 percent in this bill .  we freeze afterschool programs for the 4th year in a row .  that means that there are 14 million kids in this country who want those services who will not get them .  and i could go on and on .  on higher education , the college board tells us that the 4-year cost of attending a public university has increased by $ 3 , 100 over the past 5 years .  the president 's answer was to raise the pell grant maximum by 100 bucks .  a $ 100 solution to a $ 3 , 100 problem .  the congress said `` no , that is too much. '' the house cut it to $ 50 .  this conference report totally eliminates it , totally eliminates it .  no increase in the maximum grant .  and then in the reconciliation bill that follows today , they are going to add $ 8 billion more in costs to students who borrow money to go to college .  and then this bill freezes all other student aid programs , seog , work-study , perkins , trio , gear up .  it freezes title vi foreign language program .  the backlog at social security , those caseload backlogs are going to increase .  this bill provides $ 189 million less than the president asked , $ 80 million less than was in the house bill , $ 130 million less than the senate bill .  and we do all of this in order to free up necessary room so the republican party can deliver on its $ 100 , 000-plus tax cuts for people who make 1 million bucks .  this is going in the wrong direction .  these priorities are wrong .  this bill is a disgrace .  the gentleman would have provided a much better bill if he had been given a decent allocation , but he was not .  so he did not have the tools to do it .  there is no reason to vote for this bill .  mr. speaker , i reserve the balance of my time .  mr. speaker , i yield myself 15 seconds .  mr. speaker , the gentleman brags about the additional money that the republican congress has put into education .  president clinton and the democrats had to drag them kicking and screaming into providing that money .  we provided $ 19 billion more in education since they took over the congress than would have been provided if we had simply passed the republican house bill .  mr. speaker , i yield myself 15 seconds .  mr. speaker , the gentlewoman claimed there is a $ 115 million increase in here for low income heating assistance .  there is not .  the formula grant has been increased by $ 115 million , but the contingency portion of the program has been reduced by $ 115 million .  the net result : no help in the teeth of huge energy increases .  mr. speaker , i yield myself the balance of my time .  a previous majority member said today that this bill represented fiscal responsibility .  the fact is the republican party will provide , over the next decade , $ 1.2 trillion in tax cuts to people who make over $ 1 million a year .  yet in this bill , they will freeze student loans , they will allow people without health care to increase in number by 2 million , they will provide the first cut in education in a decade , they will cut safe and drug-free schools by 20 percent , and they will slash the president 's initiative for math and science education .  in the teeth of the fact that they have given $ 14 billion in subsidies to the big energy companies , they then say to low-income people who have to pay those higher prices , `` sorry .  despite the fact you 're going to have a huge increase in home heating costs , we 're not going to give you a dime in additional money in this bill. '' that is what they do .  what we are going to see today in the reconciliation bill and in this bill is a double whammy on the most vulnerable people in this society .  that is wrong morally and it is wrong economically .  we hear a lot of talk on this floor about preserving life .  yet this program is going to cut maternal and child health care by 20 percent below the 2001 level .  how is that going to encourage women to carry their babies to term ?  this bill falls far short of our responsibilities in meeting the growing economic and social needs of this country .  it ought to be defeated .  we should not put tax cuts for millionaires ahead of providing basic education , basic health care and basic job protection to america 's working people .  i urge a `` no '' vote on the conference report .  mr. speaker , i yield myself 10 minutes .  mr. speaker , let me stipulate from the outset that the gentleman from ohio is a good man , and i think , with some exceptions , he and i have priorities in this bill that are pretty much the same .  what i say is not in any way designed to be an attack upon him or his leadership of the subcommittee ; but the fact is that this subcommittee has been given an inadequate allocation and as a result , this congress is about to make a large mistake if it passes this bill because it will be shortchanging this country in terms of the long-term investments that we should be making in america 's working families and programs that are focused on the needs of america 's working families .  the gentleman argues that we ought to vote for this bill because if we do not , then the majority will bring forth a continuing resolution which will do certain bad things .  that is like saying , `` save us before we are irresponsible again. '' i really think we understand that what needs to happen to this bill is that it needs to be repaired , not further savaged ; and that is what we want to see done .  the reason we are in this fix is because the majority , just in the last week and a half , passed almost $ 70 billion in tax cuts and a very large percentage , approaching 50 percent , went into the pockets of the most well-off 1 percent of people in this country , people who make over $ 400 , 000 a year .  and then they pay for it , partially , by squeezing bills like this one .  let me make clear , this bill is virtually identical to the bill that the house rejected just a few days ago by a 209-224 vote on a bipartisan basis .  it has moved around a small amount of money in hopes of picking up a few votes because of an improvement in rural health care , but outside of that the bill is virtually the same .  i want to make clear when we vote against this bill today , we will be voting against it not just because we are unhappy with the $ 1.6 billion cut below last year that this bill represents .  to understand what this bill is doing , you must look at it in conjunction with the next step that the republican leadership of this congress has already announced that they intend to take , which is to further cut this bill by 1 percent across the board as they cut the entire discretionary budget 1 percent across the board .  that means that this bill will have a double hit .  that means in the end this bill , for 1 year alone , will be $ 3 billion less than was provided for these same programs last year .  over a 5-year period , because this sets us on a course , over a 5-year period if we pass this bill , we will wind up spending $ 15 billion less for programs in this bill than we would otherwise spend if we simply stuck to last year 's baseline .  in addition to that , 2 weeks ago our republican friends pushed through a package of rescissions and reconciliation actions which cut $ 33 billion out of programs that benefit the same people who are benefited by this bill .  they , for instance , cut $ 5 billion out of child support enforcement which will result in women in this country over the next 5 years getting $ 24 billion less in child support money than they are entitled to .  they are cutting over 200 , 000 kids off health care screening and cutting well over 200 , 000 families off food stamps .  they are saying to people on disabilities , `` sorry , but you are not going to get your full entitlement in your first check after you are declared eligible for disability. '' right now the law says that if you apply for disability and if you are adjudged to be eligible , when you get your first check , you will be paid retroactive to the date of application .  the bill that passed 2 weeks ago on this floor , the reconciliation bill , said , `` sorry , folks , if you are declared eligible , you will get only the first 2 months ' entitlement in that check ; the rest will be strung out over a period of months. '' the only reason the government saves money under that plan is because people will die before they get what they are entitled to get .  so this house has already taken all of those actions which will cut the assistance to middle-income families and poor families in this country by $ 33 billion , and then this bill over the next 5 years will wind up imposing an additional $ 15 billion cut in resources provided over that time .  and as far as i am concerned , it is ironic that this is happening at christmastime .  usually , mr. speaker , at christmastime , we fill children 's stockings .  this time around , in sort of `` scroogenomics '' fashion , we are emptying those children 's stockings and instead moving that money into the pockets of some of the wealthiest people in this country .  i do not think that is a way to live up to the christmas spirit .  i want to point out what some of the real reductions will be .  we have 55 million children in public schools .  state budgets are stretched thin .  and yet , no child left behind funding in this bill is cut $ 779 million and would be cut $ 1 billion after the 1 percent across-the-board cut is imposed .  pell grants : both parties go home and tell people how much we want to help families who are trying to send their kids to colleges .  the college board spelled out that in the last 5 years , the cost of a 4-year public education has increased by $ 3 , 100 .  the president 's response to that was to add $ 100 to the pell grant maximum grant .  so he proposed a $ 100 solution to a $ 3 , 100 problem .  house republicans said , `` oh , no , that is too much. '' so , originally , this bill cut that to $ 50 , and then the conference came back with nothing , zippo .  so the congress is doing nothing to ease the squeeze on families trying to send their kids to college .  and in the reconciliation bill which they passed just 2 weeks ago , they are making that problem , over the next 5 years , $ 12 billion worse or , i am sorry , $ 8 billion worse for those same families by raising fees , raising interest rates on student loans .  and then they say that they are friends of education .  if you take a look at education technology , this bill cuts that program by $ 221 million or 45 percent .  if you take a look at low-income heating assistance , we have a need to at least double that program , given the fact that we have these huge increases in natural gas prices and home heating-oil prices .  in fact , this bill freezes low-income heating assistance .  and with the 1 percent across the board that is contemplated that will be on top of this freeze , you will wind up actually reducing money for low-income heating assistance .  our republican friends say , `` oh , well , we are going to try to add $ 1 billion in the reconciliation bill. '' but we are already told that there is less than a 50/50 chance that reconciliation bill will even be passed before congress leaves here for the holidays .  then if you take a look at the international labor affairs program , the program which is supposed to protect american workers ' wages by seeing to it that they do not have to compete internationally against slave and child labor , that program is being cut by $ 21 million or 22 percent by this bill and the across-the-board cut that will shortly follow .  community health centers : everybody on both sides of the aisle talks about how important they are .  but there is virtually no funding for new community health centers beyond those approved last year .  and the majority , in this bill , eliminates the healthy communities access program , $ 83 million gone that helps provide health care to persons who do not have any or who do not have health care .  so i would say simply , mr. speaker , this bill is highly inadequate .  it short sheets america 's future .  it does not make the investments in health research , in education , in worker training that any civilized , healthy leading society would make .  we do not meet our obligations in this bill , and i would urge a no vote .  and i would urge that the majority go back to the drawing board , give this bill a better allocation and live up to the expectations of the american people .  mr. speaker , i yield myself 30 seconds .  let me simply say with respect to idea , aid to the disabled children , the fact is , this bill cuts the federal share of that program from 18.6 percent to 18 percent .  and under the across-the-board cut that will be coming shortly , it drops further to 17.8 percent .  in all , the bill will provide $ 4 billion less than the glide path to full funding that the republican budget resolution promised just 2 years ago .  mr. speaker , i yield myself 4 minutes .  mr. speaker , one of the previous speakers on the majority side of the aisle said that we have limited resources , we have to make priority choices .  that is absolutely right .  the problem is with the priority choices that the majority has made .  they are fond of pointing to the fact that we have had extraneous expenses such as katrina , and they say that is why we have to squeeze bills like this .  but , in fact , under actions already taken by the majority party in this congress , over the next decade they will provide $ 1.2 trillion in tax cuts for persons who make more than $ 400 , 000 a year , the top 1 percent of earners ; and they have done virtually all of it by borrowing money to provide those tax cuts .  i would point out that that $ 1.2 trillion is more than five times as much as the federal government will spend by anybody 's estimate on repairing katrina .  i would say that also the actions of the last week , when they added $ 70 billion to the tax breaks that they are providing , again with 50 percent going to the top 1 percent , demonstrate what the values and what the priorities of the majority party would be .  if we ask the average family in this country what they need in order to be able to deal with their own problems , i think what they would say is they need help to see to it that they have adequate access to education for their children .  i think they would say that if somebody loses a job , they need help to get decent retraining .  i think they would ask for fair treatment in the workplace .  i think they would ask that their family have decent health care .  and i think seniors would ask that they be provided a secure retirement with adequate medical care and help to pay their drug costs .  the fact is that this bill fails on virtually all tests .  i would say also , as the gentleman from maryland indicated , we did try to do one additional thing for senior citizens .  because of the incredibly confusing prescription drug program which seniors are being asked to sign up for , because that program is so incredibly confusing , we tried to get the majority to consider a 6-month delay in the deadline that seniors have to meet in signing up for that program .  that motion failed on a party-line vote , unfortunately , on a 7-7 vote .  i would hope that before this congress ends , the congress will recognize that that program is so incredibly convoluted that there must be a delay in the sign-up deadline so that seniors have more time to make what could be a very confusing and devastating choice if they make the wrong choice .  having said that , mr. speaker , i want to thank the staff on both sides of the aisle for the work that they have done on this bill .  it has taken a good number of good people to produce what i think is a bad product because of the allocation ; but , nonetheless , i appreciate the hard work and i appreciate the enduring friendships that we have across the aisle .  mr. speaker , i assume this is the last time i will speak on the floor before christmas , so i want to wish everyone merry christmas and a happy new year , and enough blessings so that you will reconsider some of the mistakes in this bill .  unfortunately , our constituents would not .  mr. speaker , i rise today with a heavy heart to talk about the misguided conference report that the majority party has produced .  while the number of people living in poverty in this country continues to rise , this conference report fails to adequately fund programs that work to alleviate poverty .  despite the evidence , this conference report cuts head start funding and freezes funding for programs such as the community service block grant and liheap .  as the number of americans without health insurance sets new records every day , this conference report is cutting funding to programs that provide healthcare assistance to the uninsured .  it eliminates the healthy communities access program and imposes drastic cuts to maternal and child health funding and rural health outreach .  these cuts are in addition to $ 11 billion in cuts to medicaid that are included in the majority party 's reconciliation bill that may be voted on later today .  as the number of americans unable to find a job continues to rise this conference report issues devastating cuts to initiatives that help put dislocated workers back in the labor force .  currently , 7.4 million americans are unemployed , yet this conference report cuts unemployment insurance and employment services by $ 141 million .  at a time when this country should be investing in education and human capital , this conference agreement cuts $ 784 million from no child left behind .  it cuts funding for even start and safe and drug free schools , and freezes funding for adult education .  these cuts are in addition to a reconciliation bill that cuts $ 14.3 billion from student aid for college students .  mr. speaker , i came to congress to find solutions to problems not make them worse .  we have a responsibility to ensure that all americans have an opportunity to share in america 's prosperity .  it is irresponsible that we approve this conference report that cuts and eliminates essential programs when there is such an obvious need for the services they provide .  i can not in good conscience vote for this conference report and i urge my colleagues to vote `` no . '' mr. chairman , i rise in support of the bonilla provision to delay implementing mandatory country of origin labeling , which is known as cool , for meat and meat products for 1 year .  this distinction is important .  this delay is for meat and associated products alone .  in the 2002 farm bill , we added the cool requirement for fruits and vegetables .  the conference , however , expanded the mandate to meat , fish , perishable agricultural commodities , and peanuts .  as most things not vetted by committees , these regulations brought a number of problems and unintended consequences .  several government and private studies have identified numerous costs added , especially for consumers .  american families should not pay the price for marketing beef without it being any safer than it is now .  the house has previously voted to delay mandatory cool in order to review the law and develop a voluntary option .  the bonilla provision to delay cool labeling for meat is the right thing to do .  i ask the house to join me in keeping this provision and oppose the motion to strike .  mr. chairman , this congressional black caucus alternative budget continues the cbc tradition of advocating for increased federal aid to education as the first priority of the world 's only superpower .  for the last ten years the members ofthe cbc have boldly trumpeted the fact that there is an education state-of-emergency in the african american community and in the mainstream of america .  the american people enhanced by universal quality education constitute the greatest weapon of mass construction our nation can have .  to maintain this weapon of mass construction , to maximize homeland security , education must be our front line of defense .  to confront violent fanatics and zealots in the military arena our soldiers must be the best trained and most educated fighting force in the world .  to maintain , expand and guide the most complex economic system in the history of our civilization in ways that guarantee continued prosperity we must accept nothing less than overwhelming supremacy in education .  our budget must reflect this overwhelming quest for supremacy .  members of the cbc have proudly supported an increase of 23.9 billion dollars in the education budget .  more specifically we have supported the following restorations and increases : & lt ; center & gt ; function 500 -- education and training & lt ; /center & gt ; + $ 23.9 billion & lt ; center & gt ; school construction & lt ; /center & gt ; $ 2.5 billion & lt ; center & gt ; full funding for no child left behind , including : title i , safe and drug free schools , 21st century learning centers , teacher quality programs , education technology , fund for the improvement of education , english language acquisition , and migrant education & lt ; /center & gt ; $ 12 billion & lt ; center & gt ; elementary and secondary school counseling & lt ; /center & gt ; $ 50 million & lt ; center & gt ; vocational education & lt ; /center & gt ; $ 1.5 billion & lt ; center & gt ; job training & lt ; /center & gt ; $ 750 million & lt ; center & gt ; adult education & lt ; /center & gt ; $ 400 million & lt ; center & gt ; pell grants & lt ; /center & gt ; $ 450 million & lt ; center & gt ; head start & lt ; /center & gt ; $ 2 billion & lt ; center & gt ; individuals with disabilities education act ( idea ) & lt ; /center & gt ; $ 2 billion & lt ; center & gt ; historically black collegesand universities ( hbcus ) & lt ; /center & gt ; $ 500 million & lt ; center & gt ; hispanic serving institutions & lt ; /center & gt ; $ 400 million & lt ; center & gt ; trio & lt ; /center & gt ; $ 500 million & lt ; center & gt ; gaining early awareness and readiness for undergraduate programs ( gear-up ) & lt ; /center & gt ; $ 350 million & lt ; center & gt ; perkins loans & lt ; /center & gt ; $ 100 million & lt ; center & gt ; impact aid & lt ; /center & gt ; $ 300 million & lt ; center & gt ; seog & lt ; /center & gt ; $ 100 million & lt ; p & gt ; mr. chairman , i thank the distinguished gentleman from south carolina for yielding me this time , and i thank him for his great leadership in putting together a budget that is a statement of our values , that is balanced in terms of our priorities and balanced fiscally .  he has always conducted the process of creating a budget in a way that has informed members , has done so with great dignity and great fairness and great respect for all points of view .  i wish we would all join in acknowledging the great leadership of the gentleman from south carolina , our ranking member on the committee on the budget .  mr. chairman , in 1994 , the first item in the republicans ' contract with america was the fiscal responsibility act .  republicans pledged `` to restore fiscal responsibility to an out-of-control congress , requiring them to live under the same budget constraints as families and businesses. '' more than 10 years later , an out-of-touch republican majority has taken fiscal responsibility to a new low .  it is clear that in the 10 years the republicans have become addicted to deficits .  the budget deficit for this year is a record $ 427 billion .  the february budget deficit , my colleagues , of $ 114 billion for the month of february , a deficit of $ 114 billion , is the highest monthly deficit ever and the first time it ever went over $ 100 billion in one month .  in 2001 , president clinton left president bush with a projected $ 5.6 trillion in surplus .  in just 4 years , president bush has turned that record surplus into a record deficit of nearly $ 4 trillion , a $ 10 trillion swing in the wrong direction .  make no mistake , these deficits are the direct result of republican policies , huge tax cuts for the wealthy , a refusal to pay as you go , poor planning for a war of choice in iraq .  the list goes on and on and on .  america is awash in red ink because of republican budget irresponsibility .  tragically , this republican budget is yet another missed opportunity to return to fiscal discipline .  not only is this budget fiscally irresponsible ; the republican budget is dishonest .  it does not cut the deficit in half as republicans claim .  in fact , it makes the deficit worse .  republicans leave out the realistic cost of the war , the cost of expiring tax provisions , the true cost of fixing the alternative minimum tax and the cost of any changes to social security .  the budget is dishonest in another way : it fails to show any deficit figures at all after 2010 .  in our new partnership for america 's future , democrats have made a commitment to honor the value of accountability , including eliminating deficit spending and holding those in power accountable for their actions with a high ethical standard .  democrats support honest , accountable budgets that pay as you go .  the democratic alternative offered by the gentleman from south carolina achieves balance by 2012 .  the republican budget never reaches balance .  it heaps tons of debt onto our children and grandchildren , and it will eventually lower our standard of living .  we can not let that happen to our country .  and on top of all of that , the republican budget undermines the solvency of social security .  while republicans ignore the real crisis of ballooning budget deficits , the president falsely claims there is a crisis in social security .  but just because the president says it does not make it so .  he is simply wrong .  according to the nonpartisan congressional budget office , social security 's trust fund will grow every year until a high of $ 8.3 trillion in 2032 and continues to be solvent until 2052 .  i want to call your attention to this chart , my colleagues .  the left bar represents the deficit in the general fund between now and 2035 , a staggering $ 15 trillion .  the bush administration has taken us onto a trajectory of reckless budgeting that will take us to $ 15 trillion in deficit in 2035 .  from 2006 to 2035 , $ 15 trillion in deficit .  this bar here , the second bar , social security , 2006 to 2080 , twice as long , more than twice as long , the social security deficit is $ 2 trillion .  it is clear that there would be plenty of money to deal with the social security trust fund if the president were not using the social security trust fund as a slush fund to give tax cuts to the wealthiest people in america .  instead of doing that , we have a moral and legal obligation to pay back to the trust fund the money the president has taken out .  we can not let the president do this .  by running enormous deficits , the republicans want to force the government to break its promises to the elderly .  how on earth are they going to pay the social security trust fund back if they have gone broke on the other side by running up these deficits in the general fund ?  democrats will keep america 's promises to our seniors .  democrats have done it before , and we will do it again .  when bill clinton was president , we had 3 years of surpluses .  and with the surpluses , imagine , think of it .  zero deficits .  $ 427 billion in deficit for this year , over $ 100 billion in deficit for the month of february alone , this year .  and when president clinton was president , the 3 years at the end of his term , we had zero deficits .  and with the surpluses that were produced he was able to pay nearly $ 400 billion off of our indebtedness , strengthening the solvency of social security .  likewise the democratic alternative that was offered today included pay-as-you-go rules that would block new tax or spending legislation that is not paid for .  not only is the republican budget fiscally reckless and dishonest , it is morally irresponsible .  the leaders of five protestant denominations , the episcopal church usa , the evangelical lutheran church in america , the presbyterian church usa , the united church of christ and the united methodist church recently called president bush 's budget unjust .  they reminded us of the words of the prophet , micah , who said , `` what does the lord require of you but to do justice , to love mercy and to walk humbly with your god ?  `` does this budget do justice for americans ?  you be the judge .  is it doing justice to our children to give tax cuts to people making more than $ 500 , 000 a year , while underfunding head start , no child left behind , student loans and grants and other education initiatives by $ 2.5 billion ?  is that doing justice to our children ?  is it doing justice to our communities to give tax cuts to the wealthy while funding for community police and local fire fighters who are vital to our homeland let us hear it for the other body .  it undermines the community development block grant initiative with all considered restructuring and a massive 35 percent cut .  it makes huge cuts to the earned income tax which takes 2 million children , lifts 2 million children out of poverty .  but this budget , the republican budget , makes cuts there .  no .  the republican budget does not do justice , it does great damage to our country .  instead of being a statement of our values , the republican budget is an assault on our values .  and it is a blueprint for financial disaster .  i urge my colleagues to return to fiscal discipline , to honor our values and to oppose this disgraceful republican budget .  thank you , my colleagues .  vote `` no '' on this budget .  mr. speaker , how much longer will it take for the republican leadership to pass this terrible attack on america 's children ?  mr. speaker , how much longer will you hold this vote open ?  mr. speaker , how many members have not yet voted ?  mr. speaker , is the vote being held open to change votes or are there members who have not voted ?  i hope we will not be waiting too much longer , mr. speaker .  ms. pelosi ( during the vote ) .  parliamentary inquiry , mr. speaker .  mr. speaker , is it not a part of the rules of the house for members who wish to change their votes for them to come to the well to change their votes and not keep the machines open to do that ?  mr. speaker , is it not further part of the usual procedure of the house for the chair to announce the changes as they come in ?  madam chairman , i rise in strong support of h.r. 2744 .  madam chairman , the chairman and the new ranking minority member of the agriculture appropriations subcommittee have done an excellent job under very difficult circumstances .  madam chairman , i support this bill because it will ensure that important farm bill programs are administered -- as well as many of the important discretionary programs of usda .  madam chairman , the farm bill was developed in a responsible , forward-looking manner .  it was devised within the terms of the congressional budget , and while it addressed farm income , it also made substantial investments in research , in conservation , and in enhancing the nutrition programs that protect the needy .  but because of this congress ' failure to take a similar , forward-looking approach to government debt , this bill makes deep cuts in those farm bill programs that were so strongly supported in this house .  the fy 2004 agriculture appropriations bill made substantial cuts in farm bill programs , the fy 2005 bill went even farther , and this bill cuts them even more .  madam chairman , the appropriations committee ca n't be blamed for this situation .  they have worked on a bipartisan basis to provide the best bill possible in a bad situation .  but in order to meet the cap , this bill cuts these mandatory farm bill programs : the initiative for future agriculture and food systems ; rural broadband and local television initiatives , the wetlands reserve program , bioenergy and renewable energy development ; the eqip program , the conservation security program , the wildlife habitat incentives program , the farmland protection program , and others as well madam chairman , the farm bill -- which was developed in a very inclusive and bipartisan manner -- has been working very well .  in fact , during the time it has been in effect , commodity program spending has been $ 15 billion less than originally projected .  but our current fiscal policies are tearing the farm bill apart bit by bit .  i hope that soon we can end the partisanship that characterizes fiscal policy and work together towards a common solution .  madam chairman , once again i commend appropriations committee members on both sides for their work on this important bill and i urge my colleagues to vote for its passage .  mr. chairman , colleagues will remember the biblical story of the prophet nathan coming to the mighty king david .  nathan told david a story about a rich man who had many sheep but took the one little ewe lamb of a poor man to feed a visiting friend .  david flew into a rage at the rich man and proclaimed that anyone who should do such a thing deserved to be put to death for abusing his power and showing so little compassion .  then nathan turned to david and said , `` you are that man. '' this story should lead us to look into the mirror .  are we in danger of becoming `` that man '' ?  the republican budget removes support for housing , education , medicaid , community development , and small business lending .  it raises taxes on the poor .  and it does all this so the republicans can afford new tax cuts for the wealthiest among us .  if ever there were a moral issue before this congress , surely it is this one .  one might expect that these cuts would at least result in significant decreases in our deficits , but this is not the case .  we continue to face the worst-of-both-worlds scenario in which we suffer both devastating cuts and dangerous increases in the deficit .  we continue to borrow from our children to pay for tax cuts , the wars in iraq and afghanistan , and the president 's social security privatization .  as members of congress , we have a responsibility to be good stewards of the resources of our government , not simply to look at our immediate desires , but also to the needs of our children and our children 's children , including their need to be free of a crippling debt .  republicans claim to be the party of moral values , but their budget belies that claim .  the democratic alternative maintains current funding levels for our country 's critical domestic and security programs while also providing meaningful tax relief for middle-class americans .  furthermore , the democratic budget recognizes that fiscal responsibility is also a moral value by reinstating a real pay-as-you-go rule and by balancing our budget within 7 years .  the republican budget , on the other hand , continues to run up record deficits for as far as the eye can see .  mr. chairman , the budget process provides each party with a chance to put its money where its mouth is , to act on the rhetoric we all hear around here year round .  a budget is a statement of moral priorities .  may we do justice to those imperatives in the vote we cast tomorrow .  madam chairman , i thank the distinguished ranking member of the subcommittee for yielding me this time .  madam chairman , we all recognize that the committee on appropriations must work within the constraints of a budget that is completely inadequate to meet the nation 's needs .  i acknowledge that .  but the fiscal year 2006 interior and environment appropriation bill also reflects the kinds of choices made in recent years by this administration and the majority in congress , which made this clash of growing needs and shrinking budgets unavoidable .  the effect is that the department of the interior and our other departments and agencies are being put on a crazy fad diet that is harmful to the health of the nation .  i am troubled , for example , by the continued underfunding of maintenance needs to our national parks .  the committee has seen fit to provide $ 20 million over the president 's request for operations , an increase i support , but our national parks should be safe places , where parents and children can roam and relax , where they can picnic and hike and raft .  instead , our parks are falling apart , and against a huge backlog of maintenance needs , this bill cuts funds for park construction projects , a critical component of our park maintenance efforts .  forest service programs that help to promote safety and job creation in rural america are also underfunded in this bill .  economic action programs , which enable rural communities and businesses to become more economically self-sufficient through the use of forest resources were zeroed out .  the situation here goes well beyond trimming fat .  we can talk all we want about the need for a lean government , but this is not belt tightening , as some would suggest .  this is more like being shoved into scarlet o'hara 's corset .  the president eliminated statewide funding for the land and water conservation fund in his budget .  those monies are indispensable to states across the nation that rely on those matching monies for their parks and recreation budgets .  but while the president may have conducted a tummy tuck , this bill calls for something close to an amputation .  even the federal share is axed .  i am especially troubled by the flat lining of the appropriation from the abandoned mine reclamation fund .  there continues to exist a large inventory of high priority human health and safety threatening sites in our nation 's coalfields .  the unspent balance in the fund is approaching $ 2 billion , yet this money from a fee assessed on the coal industry is not being adequately deployed to combat these threats to coalfield citizens and their communities .  madam chairman , this bill is not a case of an overweight agency being squeezed into a slimmer , trimmer budget .  this is a case of a starving agency trying to survive on the crumbs of a fiscal mess .  i regret that i can not support this bill .  mr. chairman , i want to personally thank the gentleman from south carolina ( mr. spratt )  so much for the work that he has done in having the record make it clear that we in the house of representatives did have an alternative to what was presented to us .  there is a lot of talk about moral values that we hear about politically ; but i do not care what your religious background is , there are always these stories about the sick and the poor in need ; and on the other side , the option is for the rich and the greedy and the insensitive .  you do not have to be a republican or a democrat when you look at the document that was placed before us by the majority and then to take a look at the compassion and the common sense that is involved in the alternative that the gentleman from south carolina and his team have brought to us .  but i am not here to talk about compassion .  i am too old to believe that it is going to change .  i am here to talk about national security , national security at a time that we are going through these economic deficits .  it would just seem to me that it would make a lot of sense if we invested in our young people that are going to school , to make them more productive and make them tax-paying .  it seems to me it would make a lot of sense to invest in someone 's health so that they would not have to go to community centers , which are being cut back , that they would not have to go into the hospitals .  it seems to me that we would have a sense of national security by thanking our veterans who fight the war , keep the spirits up and not tax them for getting sick or having ailments .  it seems to me that in the final analysis , what we have done is borrow money and ask that we make these tremendous tax cuts permanent and whatever our kids get and our grandchildren get will be the debt that this body can possibly place on them .  i just hope that somewhere along the line someone would say that if you really care about this country , that you will care about all of its people , you will be concerned about its working people and be concerned in making social security something that will be guaranteed for them because we promised them that it would be .  but i do not think that anyone takes this budget seriously , not if you leave out of it the alternative minimum tax , which no one would want to be able to tell their constituents that this $ 600 billion tax increase that we are going to place on them , that we did not mean to do it ; and no matter how many cities the president goes to , no one would believe that he was sincere about reforming the social security system when he knows , republicans know , democrats know , that it is going to take money to do this and that is not in the budget .  and there are so many other things that are left out .  even the money that is paid into social security , that is not counted as a part of our debt .  but one day , just one day , historians or maybe our kids and grandkids are going to ask each and every one of us , when this country was going into this deficit hellhole and when the poor were becoming poorer and the sick , we were cutting their benefits , what were you doing and how were you voting , and i am glad that we will have an opportunity just not to be able to vote against what the majority has given us , but that we have an alternative that the gentleman from south carolina and the minorities on the budget committee and so many others have worked together to say that we are proud to be americans , we are proud to be members of congress , and we are proud that we voted the right way .  mr. speaker , i rise in opposition to the conference report on h.r. 3010 .  the fiscal year 2006 labor-hhs-education appropriations report before the house today shortchanges america 's children , its families , its workers and its most vulnerable citizens .  the labor-hhs-education bill embodies our priorities and values as americans .  in it , congress provides the yearly resources needed to keep our families healthy , our children educated , our workers employed , and our most vulnerable citizens a productive part of our society .  this bill is arguably one of the most important pieces of legislation congress addresses each year .  chairman regula understands this responsibility .  he understands that this is `` the people 's bill '' , and he has worked hard to distribute the limited resources he was given in a fair and conscientious way .  so my `` no '' vote today should in no way be seen as a lack of respect or appreciation for the efforts of ralph regula , the chairman of the labor hhs appropriations subcommittee .  chairman regula and the staff of the subcommittee have worked within this tight budget allocation to address the needs and priorities of our states and communities as best they could under the circumstances .  for example , the conference report includes increases in two critical areas to help infants and their families .  the first is the centers for disease control and prevention 's folic acid national education program .  this program has been instrumental in the prevention of birth defects by encouraging women of child-bearing age to take the recommended amount of folic acid daily , thereby decreasing the rate of neural tube defects .  the second increase is for the health resources and services administration 's newborn screening program for early identification of infants affected by certain genetic , metabolic , hormonal and or functional conditions for which there are effective treatment or intervention .  in addition , for the first time , this bill also includes programmatic funding for the national media campaign to fight underage drinking , which is being conducted by the ad council .  i thank the committee for helping our country make progress in these critical public health areas .  the presence of these and a small number of other positive programmatic funding levels , however , is simply not enough to warrant approving this conference report .  mr. speaker , the constraints placed on this bill by the budget priorities and decisions of the republican leadership are not worthy of this house and the values of the american people .  i voted against the house bill when it came to the floor in june precisely because it fell so short of meeting the needs of america 's children , families and the most vulnerable among us .  i had hoped that the bill would be improved in the conference .  it is unfortunate , however , that in this conference agreement , the way they chose to improve overall programmatic funding from the original house bill levels was to take resources away from other priorities and community needs .  this report and its funding decisions do not stand in isolation .  they reflect the misguided priorities of a republican leadership that has continually put the interests of the wealthy and the privileged before the needs and priorities of working and middle-class americans .  this labor-hhs-education conference report is a direct result of an economic agenda of tax cuts for the wealthiest americans , and it weakens america 's future by under-funding key education , health and human services programs .  if approved , this bill will impose cuts to essential programs important to americans in at least three major areas .  first , this conference agreement significantly shortchanges our nation 's workers .  the bill cuts labor programs $ 430 million below the fy 2005 levels .  training and employment services for the 7.4 million americans who are unemployed are funded well below the fy05 levels .  this includes a $ 31 million cut to adult training grants , a $ 36 million cut to youth training grants ; and a $ 141 million cut to unemployment insurance offices .  the u.s. employment service office , which matches job seekers with job openings , is slashed by 10.5 percent , and the report freezes funding for dislocated and older workers .  in addition , the bill slices international labor affairs , the program that helps eradicate abusive child labor practices and protect worker rights .  by 21 percent .  secondly , this report is simply a reaffirmation of the administration 's hollow commitment to education , slashing the no child left behind funds by $ 784 million below the fy 2005 level .  it cuts the education technology block grant program that provides access to technology in schools by a shocking 45 percent from last year 's level .  it reduces the even start program supporting services for low literate and low-income families by 56 percent .  and as a final point , it shortchanges our children with disabilities by funding idea at $ 4 billion below the republican promise to put special education on a fast track to full funding .  finally , the report is particularly devastating to the health of americans .  some of its most significant cuts are directed towards the critical programs that provide a health care safety net for the uninsured .  the conference agreement provides $ 34 million less than the house passed bill and $ 89 million less than the senate bill for grants to health centers for services to the uninsured .  the maternal and child health block grant is cut by 3 percent , reducing its true per capita purchasing power by almost 20 percent below the fy 2002 level .  the conference agreement terminates the healthy communities access program that makes grants to local hospitals , health centers and providers so that they can provide better integrated systems of care for the mr. speaker , these drastic reductions to critical programs are not necessary .  ranking member david obey has consistently laid out a common-sense approach to this problem .  by simply reducing the tax break for those with incomes greater than $ 1 million , we could add funding for no child left behind programs , maintain college affordability by increasing the money for pell grants , shore up our health safety net programs , and rebuild our public health system to respond to pandemics and possible terrorist attacks .  but these fiscally responsible efforts by mr. obey  and the democrats have been defeated by the republican majority at every turn .  the result is this grossly underfunded bill which we are considering today .  in the end , this congress will be judged by how well we have served the needs of all our citizens and communities .  as a result , this labor-hhs-education bill will not reflect kindly on us .  we can and must do better for the future of our families , our children , our workers and our most vulnerable citizens .  mr. speaker , i regrettably rise in opposition to the labor-hhs-education appropriations conference report , because it grossly under funds the essential programs in education , health and human services that help improve the quality of life of the american people .  chairman regula has done his best to meet the needs of the most vulnerable in our society with the very limited resources he was given .  ironically , these inadequate resources are a direct result of his own republican leadership putting tax cuts for the wealthiest in our country before the needs of working and middle-class americans .  this is the second time that the labor-hhs conference report is before this house .  three weeks ago , republicans and democrats defeated the original conference report in a rare show of bipartisanship .  members on both sides of the aisle voted against the injustices of this bill , and refused to allow this 109th congress to be defined by a labor-hhs-education bill that turned its back on the american people .  this revised conference report continues the policy of shortchanging the needs and priorities of the majority of americans .  there are , however , two incremental improvements in this revised conference report .  the report restores $ 37 million to rural health outreach grants and rural health research , bringing them back to last year 's funding levels .  it also adds $ 53 million to bring four of the health professions training programs back to fy 2005 levels .  nevertheless , these modest changes will have little impact on rectifying the enormous gaps created by the funding cuts in this bill .  it is simply another version of misguided priorities and unacceptable choices .  if we pass this conference report , the departments of labor , education and health and human services ( hhs ) will all receive less funding next year than they did in fy 2005 .  for example , the department of labor will receive $ 430 million less than in fy 2005 , resulting in the elimination of skills training for 100 , 000 personnel in growth industries , and the abolishment of job search assistance for 1.9 million unemployed workers .  these are two critical programs that benefit the 7.6 million americans who remain out of work .  the department of education will receive $ 59 million less than it did in 2005 , and contrary to the administration 's professed commitment to leave no child behind , this second conference report will reduce the `` even start '' program for low-literate and low-income families by 56 percent , freeze the english language training program , and fund idea with the smallest increase in over a decade .  in addition , at a time when 45 million americans are without health insurance , the department of health and human services will receive $ 1.1 billion less than the fy 2005 appropriation .  the result is that this revised conference report will further erode the health care safety net by terminating the healthy communities access program , cutting $ 24 million out of the maternal and child health block grant , and eliminating the health care planning access grants that help states expand health coverage to the uninsured .  the revised labor-hhs-education conference report does not even come close to meeting the health and social welfare needs of our families , the educational requirements of our children , and the responsibilities we have to our most vulnerable citizens .  mr. speaker , this country was built on a promise of hope and equal opportunity for all of its people .  if the majority continues to ignore these values that have set our country apart and contributed to its greatness , we will lose our moral high ground and jeopardize our place as the most powerful country in the world .  our children will then be forced to live with the consequences of an undereducated workforce , a weak economy , and a society where good health and social justice are only afforded to the most privileged .  mr. speaker , i urge my colleagues to reject this still ill conceived , unacceptable and unnecessarily under funded conference report .  mr. chairman , as a member of both the congressional black caucus and the energy and commerce committee , i rise in support of both the democrat alternative and of the congressional black caucus alternative to h. con .  res. 95 , the first concurrent resolution on the budget .  the cbc alternative offers to the american people and to this congress a rational budget that is fiscally sound and morally responsible .  the cbc alternative budget invests federal resources in the programs that benefit the constituencies of all of the members of this house : education , health care , economic opportunity , retirement security and homeland security .  and the cbc alternative budget makes these investments while reducing the federal deficit -- which has spiraled out of control and out of sight over the last four years -- by an additional $ 4.0 billion .  the congressional black caucus budget alternative focuses on closing the disparities that exist in america 's communities and invests in the future of this nation by fully funding the no child left behind act at fiscal year 2006 authorization levels , expanding the head start programs , doubling the funding for historically black colleges and universities and hispanic serving institutions and increasing the size of the pell grant allotment for college students .  the cbc alternative restores much-needed federal dollars to the minority health initiative and for community health centers that provide critical health services to urban-based congressional districts like mine and rural-based congressional districts as well .  the cbc alternative also increases funding for law enforcement initiatives such as juvenile justice programs and prisoner reentry programs that are so critical to facilitating successful reentry into society by ex-offenders .  the congressional black caucus substitute invests in education and funding for the minority health initiative .  the congressional black caucus substitute invests in our nation 's veterans by restoring the cuts the president 's budget proposed in veterans ' health care and providing enhanced survivor benefits , medical and prosthetic research , long term care and mental health care .  to meet the needs of america and its citizens , the cbc changes some of the components of the president 's tax program , and directs those revenues to making our troops safe in the battlefield and our citizens safe here at home .  mr. chairman , the cbc 's budget is america 's hope for tomorrow .  mr. chairman , i urge my colleagues to join me in support of the cbc alternative budget .  mr. speaker , i rise today to talk about the republicans ' budget that was just passed in this house a little while ago , h. con .  res. 95 .  principally i think it fails to address the crucial and central issue which this congress should address , and that is fixing our national budget .  somebody in my area the other day asked me the question , what keeps me awake at night ?  and my answer was pretty simple .  being an investment banker by profession before i came to this house , i said our deficit and our debt .  we have a serious problem , mr. speaker , our treasury is over $ 7 trillion in debt .  we continue to borrow every year under this administration at something over $ 500 billion a year .  and how does this congress react ?  we signed up for another credit card .  interest rates are low .  we can afford it .  and when we max out our new credit card , we will just go and get another credit card .  free money .  that is what this congress is doing .  but even if the money is cheap , it is not free .  and while it may be cheap now , at some point what went down must come up .  interest rates will rise .  that is the history when you look at the markets .  they always do .  i wonder if the american public fully appreciates that this congress and this president continue to borrow on their credit cards the way we do .  do they know , for example , that our deficits are being financed by the chinese ?  as of last year , $ 1.9 trillion of our debt , or 40 percent of it , was owned by foreign investors .  the chinese own about $ 217 billion of that , the japanese cover about $ 668 billion , the oil-rich opec countries own about $ 48 billion , and the list goes on and on .  so we keep cutting our taxes so we are not sending that money to washington , d.c. , but we keep spending as if we had that revenue , as long as our friends the chinese and the japanese and other foreign investors continue to prop up our debt .  how long will that last ?  we need to protect our financial security .  carrying around this much debt is making us incredibly vulnerable .  we are essentially being held hostage by our own financial obligations .  as long as we continue down this road , we weaken our position as a world leader because our financial stability is in the hands of other nations .  this is not just a national security problem .  running a big deficit and debt is also a problem for the economic health of this country .  as a nation , personal savings has dropped from almost 11 percent in 1984 to about 1 percent in 2004 .  we are not saving .  we are also weak in investment , despite historically low interest rates .  in fact , if you look at this budget , you will see that we are spending about $ 1.5 billion a week in the war in iraq and afghanistan , $ 1.5 billion a week .  but we are cutting education , and we are cutting the health care system .  we are cutting our national parks budget ; we are cutting transportation .  we are not investing and reinvesting in our water and sewage systems .  all the investment that we need to be a productive country , we are not investing .  do you think the chinese are investing $ 1.5 billion a week in iraq in a war ?  no .  they are building their water systems , they are educating their people , they are building their transportation systems , their telecommunications systems .  they are investing .  we are just spending .  it is poor fiscal judgment ; and this congress , led by this side , is guilty of putting that on a credit card that all americans will end up paying .  my background is in finance .  i used to do that .  i used to finance for companies , for people .  i used to tell them how to do things .  i have never seen this kind of disregard , this structural problem that we are creating .  so i hope , mr. speaker , that this congress begins to make the tough choices , and that is the reason i opposed h. con .  res. 95 today .  madam chairman , i rise today to express my disappointment at the under-funding of the commodity supplemental food program under the agriculture appropriations bill for fy 06 .  the commodity supplemental food program is a federal program designed to improve the health of senior citizens , pregnant women and children whose income is not enough to pay for nutritious food .  through this program , seniors , pregnant and breastfeeding women , and children younger than 5 in 34 states in this country have access to a monthly basket , which provides them with basic food , such as milk , rice , pasta , juice , canned vegetables , meat and fish , and cheese .  each basket is designed to satisfy the specific needs for people who often have to choose between purchasing food and satisfying other necessities .  each basket has the purpose of assisting elder people to stay healthy and active , and children to grow healthy and productive .  inadequate funding for the commodity supplemental food program would result in the removal of more than 75 , 000 people currently participating in the program .  seniors , women and children in poverty can not wait until next year to get adequate funding for the food they need .  for these reasons , i recommended to the committee that funding for the commodity supplemental food program be increased to $ 148 million .  unfortunately , the house appropriation falls far below the amount necessary .  i can only hope that my colleagues in the other chamber will approve the adequate funds to avoid this social catastrophe .  by approving increasing fund for this program we will show seniors , women and children in need , that we care and work for them .  mr. chairman , i rise today in opposition to the republican budget of mass destruction and in support of the democratic and congressional black caucus alternative budgets which recognize the true needs and values of our nation .  we do not need to call in weapons inspectors to find the threat to the majority of americans in this budget , nor do we need a warning system .  we know exactly what , when , and where the damage will be because the republican budget , once again , puts the tax cuts of the few above the needs of the many .  under the republican budget , the vast majority of americans are asked to sacrifice , with one exception : the wealthy who can most afford to give something up .  their tax cuts -- the same tax cuts that brought us unprecedented deficits -- are protected and even extended under this proposal .  they will cost our country an additional $ 106 billion , of which 75 percent will go to people making over $ 200 , 000 a year .  in order to pay for those tax cuts , the republicans are literally proposing to take away food and health care from low-income families , kill 48 education programs by eliminating the $ 4.3 billion that funds them , slash veterans ' health care -- including cutting $ 9 million from medical and prosthetic research , and undermine community development in struggling neighborhoods by cutting $ 1.5 billion in grant programs .  despite republican claims , these cuts will do nothing to help our country 's bottom line , but they will be devastating for the children , working families , veterans and seniors who will be asked to go without .  this is not only irresponsible , but immoral .  in the that state of illinois , we could see the earned income tax credit -- the most effective anti-poverty program -- cut by $ 164.2 million , temporary assistance for needy families and child care grants lose $ 84.3 million , and supplemental security income -- which helps poor seniors and people with disabilities -- slashed by $ 174 million .  thousands of vulnerable peoples ' lives will be destroyed if the republican budget passes .  the house republican budget is even worse than the president 's proposal .  for instance , they propose even greater cuts to medicaid than under his plan .  the $ 20 billion in medicaid cuts included in this budget resolution are unwise , unjustifiable and almost certainly lethal .  as health care costs continue to rise , the number of uninsured americans exceeds 45 million , and employers continue to cut back on coverage , medicaid has provided a guarantee of support for pregnant women and children , persons with disabilities , persons living with aids or mental illnesses , and senior citizens needing medical care or long term care services .  without those services , millions of americans will no longer be able to get the physical health , mental health , and long term care services they need to remain healthy and productive .  in my state of illinois , medicaid covers 40 percent of all births , 30 percent of all children , and 65 percent of all nursing home residents .  in illinois , under the leadership of our governor , we are working to expand medicaid to cover more children and more families in face of a growing crisis in health care .  this is not just the right thing to do , it is the cost-effective course to take .  medicaid costs less than private health insurance and its per capita costs are growing more slowly than private insurance premiums .  but , if the republican budget cuts re enacted , it may no longer be there for the millions of americans who have no other source of care -- other than bankrupting their families or mortgaging their futures to pay for their parents ' long term care needs or their children 's medical services .  budgets are not just about numbers , they are about values and priorities .  based on the republicans ' proposal , maintaining and making permanent tax cuts for millionaires has been and continues to be a higher priority than meeting the needs of the majority of americans .  and , they are shifting the responsibility of their fiscal mess onto the backs of our children who will see decreased services and will be asked to deal with deficits for years to come .  the democratic and cbc budgets recognize that this is the wrong thing to do and a great threat to our nation 's future well-being and prosperity .  it is time to reverse course so that we do not continue to mortgage our country 's future and our children 's prosperity in order to pay for tax cuts for the rich that we can not afford and that they do not need .  i urge my colleagues to vote against the republican wmd and for the democratic and cbc budgets .  mr. chairman , the republican 's 2006 budget resolution makes the wrong choices for our nation .  it reflects skewed priorities and runs counter to our deepest held beliefs .  the budget embraces disastrous economic policies while at the same time failing to put forward a vision of what the united states should be .  what america needs instead is responsible policies that reflect our values , help bring our nation together , and invests in the future by expanding opportunity .  many programs important to georgia are cut , including $ 800 million from the centers for disease control , funding for firefighters by 30 percent and $ 26.7 million in homeland security funding for georgia .  these programs provide communities are harmed by cutting community development block grants ( cdbg ) by $ 211.9 million over the next four years .  representatives from the cities of riverdale and powder springs told me this week that their plans for building community centers depend on funding of cdbg .  the budget will also eliminate the hope vi program , which is revitalizing public housing in georgia .  the section 8 housing vouchers cut would remove 8 , 700 families from the program in georgia .  this budget proposes to cut vital domestic investments and services for the middle class and poor , while continuing to accumulate huge budget deficits .  education is cut by $ 366.8 million affecting 91 , 050 georgia children by under funding the no child left behind act .  trio programs by almost $ 13 million for georgia , affecting 13 , 000 students and vocational and adult education in georgia would be reduced by $ 173.7 million from 2006-2010 .  healthcare would be affected by an estimated $ 7.9 million cut to southern regional hospital .  these medicaid cuts hurt clayton county where 24.2 percent of the population in 2003 utilized medicaid .  about 10 percent of clayton county is below the federal poverty level .  despite these cuts , every georgia family 's share of the national debt has been increased by $ 38 , 281 .  the federal budget should be an honest blueprint for the spending priorities of the government .  however , this budget is not honest .  it is passing our obligations , responsibilities and challenges to our children and grandchildren , while cutting programs that benefit the poorest among us .  we need not accept a federal budget that singles out hard-working middle-class families , those who have served our nation , and our society 's most vulnerable citizens .  americans deserve an honest budget that reflects their priorities and that honors their hard work .  i urge my colleagues to reject these unnecessary cuts and work to improve the capacity of programs to address critical community needs .  mr. chairman , i thank the gentleman for yielding me this time .  the congressional black caucus is offering an alternative budget proposal that differs from both the president 's budget and the house majority 's budget by putting america and americans first .  its focus is to reduce disparities that exist in america 's communities by investing in the priorities and challenges that americans face today .  it also provides significant support for our troops in iraq .  at the same time , the cbc budget alternative accomplishes these goals in a manner that is much more fiscally responsible than the republican budget , so much so , as this chart shows , the budget deficit each year is much less , a total of a $ 167 billion deficit reduction over 5 years , so much so that it saves just in interest cost alone $ 27.5 billion over 5 years .  the congressional black caucus alternative builds for america 's future and addresses the domestic challenges our country faces .  the bulk of the cbc budget has been applied to a comprehensive approach to education and training .  with the intention of closing achievement and opportunity gaps in education , the cbc budget dramatically increases funding for education and training programs by $ 23.9 billion over the proposed republican budget next year alone .  the cbc budget supports public education by fully funding no child left behind , provides critical funding for head start , trio , idea , and elementary and secondary school counseling .  to address the education needs of our military families , the cbc budget allocates more funding for impact aid .  millions of at-risk students are hoping to succeed in high school and enroll in college , and to make that dream a reality the cbc alternative allocates funding for the gear-up program , raises the maximum amount for pell grants , increases funding for historically black colleges and universities and hispanic-serving institutions .  in addition , the cbc budget funds for the perkins student loan program , as well as job training , adult education , and vocational education programs that are critical in today 's global economy .  in order to close the existing economic disparities in the united states and to help entrepreneurs realize the american dream , the cbc alternative funds job creation programs under the small business administration .  it supports community development programs , including community development block grants , child nutrition programs , and health programs such as community health centers .  the budget also addresses disparities in housing , and believes that everyone in the united states is entitled to a safe and comfortable home .  it supports hope vi , section 8 housing programs , housing for the disabled and elderly , and low income energy assistance .  the budget also provides funding for amtrak and public transportation .  the cbc recognizes that advancements in technology and science are necessary to maintain america 's competitiveness in today 's global economy .  the budget supports funding for research and development , particularly in aeronautics and nasa , and increases funding for the national science foundation , the national institute of standards and technology , and the department of energy , as well as measures for space shuttle safety .  the congressional black caucus budget alternative also recognizes the importance of adding to the safety of our communities by funding initiatives such as juvenile crime prevention programs and prisoner reentry programs .  the funding for these important domestic needs comes from rolling back tax cuts for an individual 's adjusted gross income that is over $ 200 , 000 , and eliminating several abusive tax loopholes , including corporate incentives to move jobs overseas .  moreover , the congressional black caucus budget does not adopt the new tax cuts included in the republican budget .  the cbc revenues are used for the domestic and deficit reduction portions of the alternative budget .  the cbc budget is also committed to making america more secure .  the funding for urgent homeland security needs , veterans programs and benefits , and additional support for defense and our troops in iraq comes from a $ 7.8 billion reduction in ballistic missile defense , leaving $ 1 billion in the program for continued research .  it is a priority of the cbc to provide american soldiers with the equipment necessary to return home from iraq in a safe , quick and successful manner .  to that end , a portion of these funds have been reallocated to protect our troops in iraq by providing them with body armor , vehicle armor , and other personal support equipment , as well as for the construction and maintenance of our navy vessels , which will preserve jobs .  the cbc understands that providing homeland security requires appropriate funding to meet the many pressing needs in homeland security ; and , therefore , we have substantial funding for port security grants and rail security grants as well as funding for first responders , federal air marshals and border patrol agents .  the remainder of these funds are used to restore cuts in veterans ' programs and benefits .  the cbc understands that today 's soldiers are tomorrow 's veterans who deserve our respect and sacrifices , not just in word but in deed and in budget .  thus , the alternative budget makes critical increases in veterans ' programs and benefits , a substantial portion of which is health care .  it also supports funding for long-term care initiatives , medical and prosthetic research , and mental health care , among others .  we believe that the sum of these initiatives will make us more secure as a nation .  the cbc is committed to reducing disparities in all of america 's communities .  at the same time , our budget recognizes that we can not place the burden on our children and grandchildren .  a top priority of the cbc is to address the exploding deficit problem , and that is why our budget reduces the deficit by $ 167 billion and saves $ 27 billion in interest payments compared to the house majority 's budget .  members of the cbc have worked tirelessly to create a budget that is fiscally responsible , supports our troops and recognizes the need of american individuals and american communities around the country .  we believe this is a sound budget that will reduce disparities in america 's communities and promote and protect the best that america and americans have to offer .  mr. chairman , i thank the gentleman for yielding me time .  mr. chairman , i rise in support of the alternative budget resolution that will soon be offered by my friend and colleague , the gentleman from south carolina ( mr. spratt )  .  i do so in light of the fact that the republican budget resolution mirrors the president 's request for defense and the spratt alternative matches this funding dollar-for-dollar , but the spratt budget is better because section 401 of his resolution calls on the congress to address serious shortcomings in both the president 's budget and the house republican budget resolution .  let me explain why i favor the spratt alternative budget .  the republican budget only temporarily increases the death gratuity and the service members group life insurance coverage .  the spratt budget would make these increases permanent .  that is important .  the republican budget omits targeted pay raises and reenlistment bonuses for enlisted personnel .  we know right now we are having a great deal of trouble in enlisting young people , reenlisting some of the troops .  as you know , you enlist a soldier , but you retain families .  these issues are critical to retaining experienced troops and maintaining readiness .  the spratt budget makes it a priority .  the republican budget fails to increase funds for family service centers to support the families of deploying troops .  the spratt budget takes care of that , and takes care of our military families .  the republican budget shortchanges community-based health care organizations that care for the injured servicemen and women .  the spratt budget takes care of that .  it pluses up the program .  the republican budget does not aggressively fund nuclear nonproliferation programs .  both sides of the aisle , and as a matter of fact during the last campaign both the candidates for president , said that stopping a nuclear weapon from getting in the hands of terrorists is our top national security priority .  the spratt budget backs that up with dollars .  mr. chairman , i urge my colleagues to support the budget to be offered by the gentleman from south carolina ( mr. spratt )  .  mr. chairman , i yield myself such time as i may consume to respond to the gentleman .  i would point out that when the bush budget summit agreement came to the floor of this house in the fall of 1990 , after many arduous months of negotiation with the bush administration and the democratic leadership and the republican leadership in the house , only 88 republicans supported the passage of that bill , which had the president 's support behind it .  in 1993 , when we passed the clinton budget act and began the unprecedented march towards lower and lower deficits , eventuating in a surplus of $ 236 billion in the year 2000 , not a single republican in either house voted for that deficit reduction effort .  mr. chairman , i yield myself such time as i may consume .  mr. chairman , i would like to thank the gentleman for his kind remarks .  mr. chairman , i yielded to myself to clarify what is in the budget proposal we are proposing versus the budget resolution reported by the committee and sponsored by the republicans .  our budget , let me make this clear , matches dollar for dollar their budget on national defense and international affairs , there is not a dime 's worth of difference over a 5-year period of time .  but our budget does single out veterans as one group deserving of more spending , more than just a current services budget , because the demands are clearly there .  so our budget provides $ 1.6 billion more than theirs , than the republican resolution , for veterans health care in 2006 .  and between 2006 and 2010 we provide $ 17 billion more for veterans health care .  our budget resolution contains no reconciliation instructions to the committee on veterans ' affairs .  what does that mean ?  their resolution calls upon the committee on veterans ' affairs to report savings out of mandatory programs that will save $ 798 million .  there are only two places those savings can come from : either cutting disability benefits or raising the fees that veterans must pay to use veterans facilities .  our budget resolution contains special provisions for our troops to make sure that the increases in life insurance to $ 400 , 000 for combat fatalities voted up in the supplemental for 1 year will be extended for future years , and that the death gratuity raised to $ 100 , 000 will also be continued for future years .  and we will provide more funding for family separation centers , for deployed troops , and more community-based health care for returning troops and their families , two things that have been critically noted .  our resolution recommends that the funds be taken from the missile defense agency and advanced satellite programs to pay for these personnel benefits .  we think it is a good trade-off .  our resolution also contains more in the four functions that fund homeland security and make special provisions for increasing the budget for cooperative threat reduction , so-called nonproliferation , by $ 200 million .  so in summary , for our veterans , for our troops and for the emerging threats facing us , terrorists armed with wmds , our budget is not only better funded , but better focused than theirs .  mr. chairman , i yield myself such time as i may consume to amplify on what the gentleman from oregon has stated .  our budget would be $ 2.9 billion above theirs for the year 2006 for resources and the environment .  that makes a big difference when it comes to epa , safe drinking water , the land and water conservation act ; and over 5 years , our budget is $ 23 billion in resources and environment better than their budget .  mr. chairman , before yielding to the gentleman from texas ( mr. cuellar )  , i yield myself such time as i may consume because he is going to address education .  i would like to make it clear that education is one of those areas in our budget where we have made a decided improvement and have a notable advantage over the republican resolution .  our budget resolution rejects their education cuts .  our budget resolution provides $ 4.5 billion more for next year , 2006 , and over the next 5 years $ 41 billion more than their budget resolution .  this kind of funding , this level of funding , can not only preserve current education programs such as vocational education , funded at $ 1.3 billion which the president and their resolution would simply exterminate , wipe out , it can also support increases in priority programs like special education .  the additional funding we are providing can also help close the gap in funding for no child left behind , $ 12 billion below this year and next year below where it was authorized to be when the act was passed .  our budget rejects the reconciliation instructions to the education committee calling for $ 21 billion in savings over 5 years .  we do not know where that is coming from .  we do not include the president 's student loan proposals that would raise loan fees .  we do not end the students ' ability to consolidate their student loans at fixed interest rates .  we do not eliminate perkins loans , for goodness sake , and we do not force colleges to repay prior perkins contributions .  we do provide the funding to raise the pell grant , not just $ 100 every year for 5 years but $ 100 every year for 10 years .  the bush administration and the gentleman from iowa ( mr. nussle )  and the republicans claim that is provided for , but that can only be funded in their budget through reconciliation ; that is , through taking it out of other student loan programs .  we have a decidedly different approach to education , a much greater emphasis on education .  it is one of those things in our budget which we have singled out as deserving of additional funding .  even though we keep everything at the level of current services , a few things we plus-up to the detriment of other things , but education is one of those things we emphasize and plus-up .  mr. chairman , i yield myself such time as i may consume .  i take the chairman of the committee , my good friend , at his word ; but i have to point out the language of the resolution does increase the allocation for community development and regional development programs by $ 1.1 billion more than the president requests .  but it is still $ 1.5 billion below this year 's level adjusted for inflation .  what we have done in our resolution is to make amply clear that the cdbg will survive intact and will be fully funded , not suffer some crippling cut , as we have provided $ 9 billion more than their resolution for community development programs over 5 years .  that will guarantee , virtually , if the committees are willing , that the cdbg and other important regional development and community development programs will not have to be cut .  mr. chairman , do i have 18 1/2 minutes remaining ?  mr. chairman , i yield myself the balance of my time for the purpose of closing general debate .  mr. chairman , we have put before the house a substitute resolution as an alternative to the resolution supported by the republicans and reported by the committee .  what does our resolution do ?  first of all , in the realm of fiscal discipline , we would reimpose a rule found to work and work well during the 1990s , a rule that was first implemented by a bill signed into law by president bush , the first president bush , in 1990 as part of the bush budget summit agreement , which laid the foundation for the phenomenal success in the 1990s when we finally moved the budget out of intractable deficits into a surplus in 1998 and into a monumental surplus of $ 236 billion in the year 2000 .  part of the budget process changes that helped us achieve those impressive results was a rule called pay-as-you-go , which simply stipulates that before anyone can increase an entitlement or mandatory spending program , add to its benefits , they have to either pay for the benefits by an identified revenue source , or they have to offset the increased expenditure by decreasing expenditures elsewhere .  in addition , it provides when anyone wants to cut taxes , when we have a deficit , must offset the tax cut so it will not contribute to the deficit ; it will not further enlarge the problem on the bottom line .  so we first of all would reinstate the paygo rule .  as i said earlier , this is not just some notion we have concocted .  three times chairman alan greenspan of the federal reserve has testified before the committee on the budget that he would reinstate the paygo rule and he would apply it to expiring tax cuts that are renewed .  on the spending side of the ledger , we have brought spending back to current services , in many cases restoring deep cuts made by the republicans .  we have brought it back to current services , but we have held it at that level .  current services is basically today 's spending level carried forward with inflation .  what do we do by instituting those two practices ?  what do we accomplish ?  well , our budget moves to balance in the year 2012 , which the gentleman from iowa ( chairman nussle ) can not say with respect to his budget resolution .  secondly , we incur less in deficits each year and over the 10-year period of time that we run out our numbers , even though we provide current services funding .  thirdly , we protect medicare and medicaid .  the republicans would cut medicaid by $ 60 billion .  i met with governors , republicans and democrats , who have told us a cut of that magnitude would be devastating and we should not cut medicaid by any significant amount so that when the program is revised , it has to be revised in pursuit of some arbitrary savings number .  finally , we match funding for defense , function 050 , dollar for dollar the same as their resolution .  we match funding for international affairs , function 150 .  there is no difference between us there , but we have made some changes in our budget resolution which recommends that resources within the defense budget be shifted to personnel benefits and in particular to see that the $ 400 , 000 life insurance increase just provided in the supplemental will be carried forward and that the $ 100 , 000 increase in death gratuities will also be carried forward and funded in the future .  so we have a budget resolution with many positive features to it , but also with fiscal discipline .  a signature element is that in the year 2012 it gets to balance , but it gets there with balanced priorities .  mr. chairman , when lem keyserling wrote the full employment act of 1946 , he was an ardent keynesian , and he believed that the government had a major role to play in stimulating an economy , in seeking to maintain full employment .  and if he believed that theoretically , he believed it even more deeply after the war when the enormous demand generated by the war for once made this a full employment economy .  the whole country supported the concept .  keynes believed in deficit financing when the economy was stuck in a liquidity trap and could not get loose .  but he did not believe in the kind of deficit financing that we are running today .  i think he would be appalled both by the current account deficit which we are running , $ 618 billion , more than most economists thought was sustainable .  it exceeds 5 percent of the gdp .  and certainly i do not think he would find at all pleasing to his understanding of economics a budget deficit expected this year to be $ 427 billion .  not even maynard keynes would look approvingly on that .  we have come so far from the year 2000 when after 6 or 7 straight years of fiscal discipline , we finally put the budget in surplus , a surplus of $ 236 billion .  we had a meeting on the democratic side of the committee on the budget with mr. greenspan about what is the best approach we should take to this surplus that we find ourselves enjoying .  and it was agreed among everyone there and among democrats and republicans in the house that one thing surely we should do since we now have the resources to do it is no longer borrow and spend the social security trust fund , the surplus in it .  indeed , our proposal was that we use this surplus in the future instead of funding new debt and buying new government bonds , instead going into the open market , buying outstanding treasury bonds and that way reducing the treasury debt held by the public , increasing net national savings which woefully deficient and lowering the cost of capital and boosting the economy .  it was the first and best step we could take towards shoring up social security and making it solvent .  it was a truly conservative idea , and we urged it upon the bush administration when they came into office .  but they took a much , much different , almost opposite , path , and that is , big tax cuts tilted toward wealthy americans .  we did not deal then with our long-range liabilities to social security as we could have for the first time in a long time , and today we are suffering the consequence of that .  we are dealing with second-best proposals .  what do we have instead ?  well , instead of being here on this pinnacle with a $ 236 billion deficit surplus , we are down here with a $ 427 billion deficit this year , according to cbo .  now , the president has told us he has plans and a budget that will cut this deficit in half over a period of about 5 years .  but when we put back into his budget everything we know is likely to be incurred as a cost , whether it is the costs of iraq and afghanistan , whether it is the cost of fixing the amt , the deficit that we are dealing with today does not get better .  it does not go away .  it does not go down ; it gets bigger .  and by the end of our timeframe , 2015 , we have a deficit of $ 621 billion .  read the cbo analysis of the president 's budget .  by the end of that timeframe , we accumulated 5.135 trillion additional dollars as part of the national debt .  that surely can not be the kind of economy that lem keyserling or maynard keynes had in mind .  look at this very simple table here , and it tells you a world of facts about what has happened over the last 4 years .  three times in 4 years this congress at the request of president bush in order to accommodate his budget had to raise the debt ceiling of the united states three times by $ 2.234 trillion .  at the present rate , we are adding $ 1 trillion to our national debt every year , every 18 months , $ 1 trillion every 18 to 20 months to our national debt .  nobody in his right mind thinks that that course can be sustained .  and yet look at the bush budget again .  it only promises in our estimation more and more debt , not less debt .  how do we get away with this ?  no country in the world could have the kind of current account deficit we have or certainly have the kind of budget deficit that we mitigate the effects of it .  do not feel , do not see the consequences , and therefore do not feel compelled to do anything serious about it .  we sell much of our debt to foreigners and that mitigates the effect .  these are not good vital signs for the economy of the united states .  and surely one of the things we should be about now is the adoption of a resolution which will take us back to where we were in the year 2000 , back to surpluses because we need to be saving , not spending as the baby boomers begin to retire .  mr. chairman , i yield 5 minutes to the gentlewoman from california ( ms. millender-mcdonald )  .  ms. millender-mcdonald .  mr. chairman , i thank the ranking member for his kindness in providing time for me and also the chairman for providing the time he has provided to other congressional black caucus members .  mr. chairman , i am both pleased and proud today on the alternative budget that we , the congressional black caucus , have crafted .  it is a sensible and fiscally responsible budget that takes into consideration the needs of the average working american .  this budget does not cater to the wealthy , but addresses the needs of ordinary americans coping with the daily economic challenges that they face such as education , jobs , and housing .  in short , mr. chairman , the cbc alternative budget works toward eliminating disparities in housing , small businesses , economic , educational , and other disparities created by the administration 's fiscal year 2006 budget .  first , as we all know , a sound education is a stepping stone to economic opportunity , success , and prosperity .  the cbc alternative budget has a comprehensive approach to education and training by increasing funding for education and training programs by $ 23.9 billion over the majority budget .  it provides funds for school construction , fully funds no child left behind , and provides critical funding for head start , gaining early awareness and readiness programs , and individuals with disabilities education act , or idea .  for those in college , the cbc budget appropriates $ 450 million for pell grants .  in addition , the cbc budget funds the perkins loan programs , job training , and vocational education programs that are critical in today 's global economy .  our young people , particularly african americans , are lagging in education when compared to other groups .  this budget aims to close the achievement gap here at home while making our students more competitive worldwide .  the cbc understands that federal support for community and regional development helps promote growth in economically distressed urban and rural areas .  to remedy these economic disparities , the cbc budget ensures that the community development block grant programs will continue to improve housing conditions in low- to moderate-income neighborhoods .  our budget adds $ 1.5 billion to cdbg grants and improves housing conditions for moderate-income families .  i can not emphasize enough the importance of cdbg grants .  they assist cities and counties with creating jobs , increasing economic development opportunities , and expanding homeownership .  cdbg provides for these services in a way that recognizes the unique needs of distressed areas in rural , urban , and suburban communities .  it is the signature program for cities and counties to stimulate local economies .  i know that from experience because i once served as the mayor pro tempore on the city council for carson , california .  in 2004 , cdbg assisted 168 , 938 households across america with their housing needs , including financial assistance , construction , rehabilitation , and other improvements .  at least 95 percent of the funds support activities benefiting low- and moderate-income families .  the alternative cbc budget also allocates funding to the small business administration and the manufacturing extension partnership and provides additional funding for adult training and dislocated workers programs .  by supporting these programs , the cbc is working to close the existing economic disparities in the united states and to help entrepreneurs and ordinary americans realize the american dream .  the cbc alternative budget also allocates additional funding for enforcement initiatives such as juvenile justice and prison reentry programs .  the cbc understands we need to protect the homeland , and our budget adds $ 2 billion to meet urgent homeland security needs that face our nation .  the alternative budget therefore devotes additional resources for guarding against terrorist attacks through our rail and ports , including cargo screening that prevents nuclear or radiological weapons from entering the united states .  it also supports essential funding for the centers for disease control to help us prepare for a possible biological attack .  the cbc alternative budget ensures that cities , towns , and hamlets will receive the resources that are urgently needed to protect our citizens , resources that are absolutely needed for our cities and towns .  we can accomplish this , all of these priorities , by reducing the tax cuts from 2001 and 2003 from an individual 's adjusted gross income that exceeds $ 200 , 000 and closing tax loopholes .  i urge all of my colleagues to support this budget .  mr. chairman , i yield myself such time as i may consume .  mr. chairman , i want to respond to an observation the gentleman from texas ( mr. hensarling )  made that this was the most fiscally responsible budget since the reagan years .  i was surprised , first of all , that he chose the reagan years as a frame of reference .  those are the years that the mushroom deficits first appeared .  we had deficits of $ 200 billion , 5.6 percent of gdp in the early 1980s .  it took us 15 years to get to those deficits .  that would not be the kind of model that i would choose .  if you want something to model a budget after , then there is a much more recent and much more valid model and that is what we did in 1990 , 1993 and 1997 .  in 1990 , both sides sat down , president bush took part in the negotiations through his staff and we came to the first agreement for the settlement of the budget deficit .  the bush balanced budget agreement of 1990 and 1991 , laid the foundation for what we accomplished in the 1990s .  in 1993 , we did the clinton budget .  in 1997 , we finished it up with the balanced budget act .  all of those acts contained three elements , the paygo rule which we are proposing to reinstate , caps on discretionary spending backed up by sequestration , and a multiyear 5-year budget , not just a 1-year budget but a 5-year budget with goals to attain each year .  that is what is lacking here , the budget process , the budget discipline , the budget plan .  if you want to see where this budget is likely to lead us , i would like to say once again that everybody should look in his mail and he or she will find an analysis of the president 's budgetary proposals for fiscal year 2006 .  this is essentially the president 's budget with a few changes to it , but it is basically his budget .  as i have said , you only have to read two pages .  you come to table 1.1 and you look in the far right-hand column and you will see the total debt accumulation according to cbo that will be incurred if we follow the president 's budget through 2015 .  that total is $ 5.135 trillion and that is before anything for fixing the alternative minimum tax which cbo tells us is going to cost at least $ 640 billion , and before anything is added mr. chairman , i reserve the balance of my time .  mr. chairman , i yield myself such time as i may consume .  mr. chairman , before yielding to the gentleman from texas , i would simply like to say that i have here a copy of the cbo 's report on the budget , january 2005 , which shows that in the year 2000 we had revenues of $ 1 , 004 trillion under the individual income tax .  last year , in the year 2004 , revenues were $ 809 billion .  that is not an increase .  that is a $ 200 billion decrease .  one of the big differences between us and them is that we provide more for veterans health care and for veterans benefits .  mr. chairman , the opportunity is certainly theirs , having run the government for 4 years and having direct hands-on opportunities to reduce waste , fraud , and abuse .  mr. chairman , i demand a recorded vote .  mr. chairman , i yield myself 4 minutes .  mr. chairman , during much of this debate , as i noted earlier , my republican colleagues have taken the attitude that today 's deficits were unforeseeable , unavoidable , beyond their control .  but we warned here in 2001 and in every year thereafter when this resolution came before this house that the other side of the aisle was betting the budget on a blue sky forecast and leaving no margin for error .  it is their policy choices made in the face of our objections that have brought us to the point we find ourselves today .  in deficit this year by $ 427 billion , last year by $ 412 billion , the year before by $ 375 billion , each year has broken a record for a bigger and bigger deficit .  you control the house , you control the senate , you control the white house ; but you have not been able to control the budget , and you can not escape responsibility for its dismal condition .  as we stand here at the threshold of passing another budget resolution , i want to forewarn you , you will not take the deficit away , this resolution will not .  you will not move the deficit down .  it will only move it up and out , year after year after year to come .  but do not take my word for it .  i am partisan .  i am the democratic ranking member on this committee .  read what our neutral , nonpartisan budget shop , the congressional budget office , has to say in a report that we request every year as a matter of law , analysis of the president 's budgetary proposals for fiscal year 2006 .  every member has one of these in his or her office .  you only have to read to the second page and look in the upper right-hand corner , and you will see there that the congressional budget office says if the president 's budget is passed and implemented over the next 10 years , it will accumulate $ 5.135 trillion in additional debt of the united states .  table 1.1 , it is laid out there .  but as you all know and understand the way cbo does these estimates , they do not include all the costs .  since the president does not have costs in his budget for afghanistan and iraq after 2005 , this resolution , this estimate does not assume it , even though cbo estimates that the additional costs will be $ 384 billion .  it does not include a dime for fixing the alternative minimum tax , even though we are warned that by 2010 there will be 30 million taxpayers paying it rather than the regular tax schedule .  and cbo says the cost of fixing it over 10 years is $ 640 billion .  it includes nothing for the president 's signature initiative , the one he is pushing hardest and first and that is to partially privatize social security .  the president has indicated himself that the cost of doing that , the additional deficits we will add if we do that between 2009 and 2015 will be $ 754 billion .  when you add all of these additional costs into the mix , then the debt incurred through 2016 will be $ 7 trillion .  we will double the debt of the united states .  if indeed we do what the president is proposing and allow workers to peel 4 percentage points off fica and put those payments into a private account , we will incur $ 4.9 trillion in debt over the next 20 years .  we will not see the budget balanced again in our lifetime .  cbo is our forecaster , our neutral , nonpartisan budget shop .  they are warning us this budget will not bring the deficit down .  this budget will not do away with the deficit .  it will make the deficit worse .  indeed , they tell us in this report , same page , page 2 , that the president 's budget , basically your budget , the president 's budget , makes the situation $ 2 trillion worse than if we just left things on automatic pilot for current services .  i would simply close by saying , vote against this resolution .  let us go back to the drawing board .  we can do better .  mr. chairman , i reserve the balance of my time .  mr. chairman , i rise in strong opposition to the republican budget .  it 's dishonest .  it 's immoral .  it 's wrong for america 's future .  republicans dishonestly proclaim their budget is fiscally responsible .  the only way their numbers work out is if you use slick accounting gimmicks or fuzzy math .  let me give you some examples of their clever sleight of hand : the republicans ' top priority to privatize social security through private accounts will cost billions of dollars .  you 'd think that 'd be accounted for in this budget ?  no .  the billions of dollars that will be needed for the iraq war .  in the budget ?  no .  the cost to our children of extending the massive bush tax cuts to the wealthy that will balloon our massive deficit ?  you guessed it .  not in the budget .  even as they leave out all this massive spending , republicans still claim fiscal responsibility .  do n't be fooled .  they 're lying to the american public .  the true costs of this budget are far higher than republicans claim and our children and grandchildren will pay the tab for this deceit for decades to come .  this budget is n't just dishonest -- it 's immoral .  it imposes deep cuts to vital programs that americans depend upon .  as our weak economy is forcing more people to rely on medicaid 's health safety net , republicans are cutting the program by $ 20 billion .  income support programs that keep low-income families afloat economically are being axed .  some 48 education programs , vital environmental protections , community development grants and veteran 's health care programs are being gutted .  if you 're an average american family this will affect you and your economic security .  but , while you 're tightening your belt watching funding for child 's education and your family 's health care diminish , billions of dollars are going to big business and special interests .  while every other priority is sacrificed in the gop budget , billions of dollars more are being funneled into the bloated defense contracts or frittered away in corporate tax giveaways .  mr. speaker , the federal budget is supposed to be a statement of our nation 's priorities .  this budget is a punch line to a sick joke being played on the american people .  i urge my colleagues to oppose this dishonest , immoral and irresponsible budget .  madam chairman , i rise today in opposition to h.r. 2361 .  this legislation is irresponsible .  it under-funds programs to preserve open space .  it endangers public health .  and , it abdicates our responsibility to protect the environment for future generations .  in this time of increased growth and urban sprawl , our green spaces are more precious then ever .  instead , this bill eliminates funding for the land and water conservation fund , designed to help local communities preserve open space , protect wildlife and make recreation opportunities available in urban areas .  in addition , this bill cuts funding for the environmental enforcement activities of the epa by $ 12 million .  republicans have consistently sought to weaken environmental standards and this maneuver is the latest in a series of attempts to undermine what have been successful environmental protections and the behest of big business .  big business should never be allowed a free pass to destroy the environment while endangering the health of millions of americans who will be exposed to dirtier air and water .  i wo n't vote for this indefensible legislation that only serves to harm the environment and put americans ' health at risk .  we have a responsibility to protect our citizens and our environment and this legislation blatantly takes us in the opposite direction .  i urge my colleagues to vote `` no . '' mr. speaker , i rise in strong opposition to the newer , but not better , labor-hhs-education appropriations conference report .  less than a month ago , the members of this house rightfully defeated the previous version of this conference bill .  unfortunately , the republican majority did not get the message that americans do not want congress to cut $ 1.5 billion in critical programs .  like their previous bill , the republicans continue their assault on health care programs .  even with nearly 46 million uninsured americans , 800 , 000 of whom were added last year alone , the republicans provide virtually no funding for new community health centers beyond those approved last year .  they also propose cutting grants for immunizing children , responding to disease outbreaks and improving care for people with chronic diseases .  unbelievably , the republicans did not stop there .  just one year after failing to have enough flu vaccine available and with the impending pandemic of avian flu , this bill cuts $ 100 million of funding for flu preparedness .  also , just one day after president bush acknowledged that the current medicare prescription drug benefit was confusing , this bill ensures that help will be even more difficult to come by .  it cuts by $ 60 million the funding used to pay for helping seniors ' choosing their new medicare prescription drug benefit .  cuts were not limited to health care programs .  this bill also cuts no child left behind funding , education technology programs and special education programs .  the education for the disadvantaged program receives the smallest increase it has ever received in 8 years , negatively affecting 3.1 million low-income children .  it is no wonder republicans pushed so hard to privatize social security earlier this year .  with the poorly educated workforce the republicans are surely creating , there may be too few highly-trained workers to pay into social security to take care of my republican colleagues and me in our retirement .  beyond education , this bill will literally leave people out in the cold .  consumers are expected to pay 44 percent more for natural gas and 24 percent more for home heating oil this winter , yet republicans failed to increase funding for programs that provide home heating assistance for low-income seniors and children .  there are , regrettably , many more worthwhile programs the republicans have targeted .  programs to train workers for high skill , high paying jobs are cut $ 125 million ; job search assistance is cut $ 89 million ; state unemployment insurance and employment service offices are cut $ 245 million eliminating help for 1.9 million people .  the international labor affairs bureau , tasked with protecting american workers from being undercut by child and slave labor abroad , is being cut $ 20 million .  based on the republican efforts to cut employment services , you 'd never know this administration has overseen the lowest rate of job growth since herbert hoover .  america can do better than a bill that cuts education , health care and labor programs especially while republicans work to propose tax breaks for the wealthiest among us .  this bill clearly shows the misguided priorities of the republican majority .  i urge my colleagues to join me in voting `` no '' on this harmful and dishonorable bill .  mr. chairman , i can not vote for this budget resolution .  it does reflect the priorities of the republican leadership , but i do not think those are the right priorities for our country .  over the last five years the federal budget has gone from projected surpluses to undeniable deficits .  the result has been to reverse a decade of progress that saw the budget go from the $ 290 billion deficit when president clinton took office to a surplus of $ 236 billion in 2000 , which was where things stood when the current president bush came to office .  unfortunately , the combination of recession , the need to increase spending for defense and homeland security , and excessive and unbalanced tax cuts have taken us to the largest deficits in our nation 's history -- a $ 375 billion deficit two years ago , a deficit of $ 412 billion last year , and for this year , according to the bush administration itself , a deficit of $ 427 billion .  that is three record-setting years in a row .  and , regrettably , the budget resolution before us reflects the proposals of the bush administration -- and we know , or should know , what that means .  according to the nonpartisan congressional budget office , following the path suggested by the bush administration and this budget resolution will add $ 5.135 trillion to our national debt over the next 10 years .  i do not think this is the right way to go .  that is why i voted for the more responsible and better balanced alternative offered by the distinguished gentleman from south carolina , mr. spratt .  that alternative budget combined a balanced budget , real budget discipline , and protection for social security while still providing the same resources for defense and homeland security as the republican budget .  the alternative also would have provided more resources for important priorities and would have laid the basis for more responsible tax policy .  it was better fiscally and better in terms of the education of our children , the health care of our veterans , the development of our communities , and the quality of our environment .  it would have brought spending in the domestic discretionary accounts back to baseline , that is , to current services , enough to prevent them from being eroded away by inflation , but not any significant increase .  unfortunately , that alternative was not adopted , and the only remaining choice is to vote for or against the republican leadership 's proposal .  because i am convinced that it is not right for our communities or our country , i must vote against it .  mr. speaker , i rise today to express my strong opposition to the ill-conceived conference report for h.r. 3010 , the labor-hhs-education appropriations bill for fiscal year 2006 .  this bill is flawed in so many ways and is a disservice to the american people .  it is the latest move in the steady drumbeat of a republican legislative agenda that makes working and middle class americans pay for the tax cuts that benefit the ultra-wealthiest americans .  and it comes at a time when we are confronting the aftermath of hurricane katrina and the huge costs of waging the ongoing war in iraq .  overall , this conference report cuts education , health care , and human services by $ 1.5 billion below what was spent on these efforts last year .  meanwhile , republicans plan to spend $ 11 billion this week on a capital gains and dividend income tax cut that will provide 53 percent of its benefit to people making more than $ 1 million .  overall , republicans will spend more on tax cuts this week alone , $ 70 billion , than on both the department of education and the department of labor , $ 68 billion , for an entire year .  these are just a few victims of the republican bill .  no child left behind funding is cut by $ 784 million , the first time nclb will have been cut since the law was enacted .  title i , which is the core of nclb 's efforts to improve reading and math skills , receives the smallest increase in 8 years -- only $ 100 million -- which means 3.1 million low-income children will be left behind .  the maximum pell grant is frozen for the fourth straight year , and no new funding is provided for all other student financial aid and support programs , even though college costs have increased by $ 3 , 095 , 34 percent , since 2001 .  consumers are expected to pay 46 percent more for natural gas and 28 percent more for home heating oil this winter , yet republicans refused to increase funding for liheap home heating assistance , which helps keep the heat on for low-income seniors and children .  nearly 46 million americans are without health insurance yet republicans provide virtually no funding for new community health centers beyond those approved last year .  republicans also eliminate the healthy communities access program , $ 83 million , and state planning grants to improve health care coverage , $ 11 million .  the conference agreement does not include the $ 8.1 billion in emergency funding provided in the senate bill for pandemic flu preparedness , or any part of the $ 7.1 billion requested by the administration for that purpose .  the conference agreement freezes or cuts most programs below their fy 2005 levels , including the following : international assistance grants to eradicate child labor and protect worker rights through the bureau of international labor affairs are cut by 21.4 percent .  community college training grants are cut by 50 percent in each of fy 2005 and fy 2006 .  unemployment insurance and employment service offices to help the unemployed are cut by 6.7 percent .  health professions training grants are cut by 69 percent .  the healthy communities access program is eliminated .  the centers for disease control is cut by 3.9 percent .  comprehensive school reform state grants are eliminated .  even start family literacy services are cut by 55.6 percent .  education technology grants are cut by 44.6 percent .  the education block grant for local initiatives is cut by 49.6 percent .  safe and drug free schools grants are cut by 20 percent .  under the conference agreement , only a few programs receive modest increases over fy 2005 and -- in most cases -- even these increases are below the amounts sought by the administration .  while the conference agreement restores many of the 50 programs proposed for termination in the house bill , these restorations were made at the expense of funding for priority programs , such as community health services , title 1 grants for low-income children , and special education grants , and pell grants .  nih receives a mere 0.7 percent increase -- this does not even keep pace with inflation and does not meet our health research needs .  title 1 grants for low-income children receive a 0.8 percent increase -- the smallest increase in 8 years .  special education grants receive a 0.9 percent increase -- the smallest increase in a decade .  the maximum pell grant is frozen at $ 4 , 050 for the fourth consecutive year compared to the $ 4 , 100 provided in the house bill .  mr. speaker , the simple truth is that the bill cuts essential health and education programs to pay for ill-conceived tax cuts .  i do not believe this bill reflects the priorities and values of the american people .  i urge my colleagues to vote against it .  mr. speaker , i rise in opposition to this fy 2006 labor-hhs conference report .  almost a month ago , this house rejected an earlier version of this legislation by a vote of 209-224 because it shortchanged the nation 's critical education , health care and job training priorities .  today we are being asked to pass judgment again on a virtually identical piece of legislation -- as if shuffling $ 180 million between accounts in a $ 602 billion conference report can begin to compensate for the deficiencies in the underlying bill .  mr. speaker , the labor-hhs appropriations bill used to be called `` the people 's bill. '' so what are the people getting today ?  here 's a sample from this legislation 's hall of shame : there are $ 779 million in cuts for no child left behind , meaning 3.1 million kids wo n't get the reading and math help they were promised .  a freeze in the low-income home energy assistance program , llheap -- despite the 44 percent increase in natural gas prices and 24 percent increase in home heating oil prices expected this winter .  this house has refused to provide sufficient help to families in need despite the fact that it voted a few months ago to give the oil and gas industry a $ 14 billion tax subsidy .  a cut in real terms from the national institutes of health that will result in nih funding 505 fewer research grants than it did just two years ago .  a 5 percent cut in critical services for the 7.4 million unemployed and displaced workers left behind by our increasingly globalized economy .  mr. speaker , the list goes on and on .  while this conference report is not completely without merit -- ranging from its increased funding for rural health to the reinstatement of the bureau of labor statistics ' women worker survey -- its overarching trajectory falls far short of what our nation and its people deserve .  i do not believe that it reflects the values and priorities of the american people .  i thank the gentleman from south carolina for yielding me this time .  mr. chairman , i rise in strong opposition to the shameful republican budget .  yet again the republican leadership neglects the needs of low and middle income families in order to provide hundreds of billions of dollars in tax cuts to the wealthiest of americans .  we should not be supporting this unfair budget that leaves people without adequate housing , without opportunities for a decent education or job training , and which passes billions of dollars of debt to our children .  i am especially concerned about the community development block grant .  mr. chairman , the community development block grant is something that should have the support of both democrats and republicans .  this community development block grant is the only source of funds that some of our small towns and cities have to deal with housing , to deal with programs for senior citizens , at-risk youth or to deal with the infrastructure .  many of the small cities just do not have the money to deal with some of the problems of the sewer systems and roads and other kinds of things .  but with the community development block grant , they have the flexibility .  this is a very , very respected program .  they have the kind of extensive community planning that brings in all of the community groups and organizations , the 501 ( c ) ( 3 ) since the president initially proposed consolidating cdbg and other development programs into one grant program , not only have i received all of these letters from members of city councils and mayors , they have basically said without this program , many of their cities will simply collapse .  in addition to these cuts , the president has already proposed to cut public housing by 10 percent , section 811 disabled housing by 50 percent , housing opportunities for persons with aids by 14 percent , and other hud programs .  yet the republican budget resolution proposed to make even more draconian cuts to this function .  we simply can not afford to do that .  i urge my colleagues to reject the republican budget and to support a budget that invests in the future of our country .  this is shameful and unconscionable that they can even bring this budget to the floor .  i ask for a `` no '' vote on the republican budget and an `` aye '' vote on the democratic budget .  mr. chairman , i rise in strong support of the congressional black caucus 's budget that is being presented here today .  this budget is more responsible certainly than the president 's budget , certainly than the republican budget , and it has taken into consideration the real needs of the people of this country .  i want to talk a little bit about cdbg ; that is , the community development block grant .  by formula , every city , town , state in america receives funds from this community development block grant program .  this money is block granted to these entities in order to assist these cities with everything from infrastructure development , assistance with housing so that people can get into homes , being assisted with down payments , with rental assistance ; with 501 ( c ) ( 3 ) s , nonprofit organizations , that are providing services for at-risk youth , for seniors , for the kinds of programs that these cities and towns could never fund without this block grant .  in many ways this money that is going to the cities is the last of the moneys to deal with poverty , to deal with the lack of resources because of the inability of these cities and towns to be able to raise the kind of revenue that could help them with the very basic needs of their cities .  this president decided to cut this particular block grant by 35 percent .  i think that amounts to about $ 1.9 billion .  the good thing about what this president has done is he has brought together from both sides of the aisle representatives who know the value of this program and who are going to work together and support the kind of funding that has been put back into this budget by the cbc budget .  the cbc funds cdbg to the 2005 level , and that is the way it should be .  i would urge support for the congressional black caucus 's very thoughtful and well developed budget .  mr. chairman , i rise in strong support of the cbc substitute budget .  the cbc budget rejects the failed budget policies of the bush administration and would return us to a policy of investing in education , job training , housing , veterans and community development programs that millions of people depend on .  it would reduce the deficit and restore fiscal responsibility to a budget process that has run amuck .  mr. chairman , because the cbc believes that education is the greatest legacy that we can provide to our children , the cbc 's budget fully funds no child left behind .  we also provide an additional $ 2.5 billion for school construction and an additional $ 450 million for pell grants which will help thousands more students attend college .  we also increase funding for head start by $ 2 billion over the republican budget so that we can ensure that more low-income children are properly prepared to enter the first grade .  the cbc budget substitute recognizes the vital role that the community development block grant ( cdbg ) program plays in improving our communities .  the republican budget proposes to cut cdbg by at least $ 800 million and the cuts could end up as high as the $ 1.9 billion cut proposed by the president .  these cuts to the cdbg program will leave a huge hole in the budgets of our local governments , a hole they can not and will not be able to fill with their own resources .  the cbc budget substitute rejects these cuts , and instead provides an increase of $ 1.2 billion more than the republican budget for cdbg .  we also reject the $ 286 million in cuts proposed for the hope vi program and instead provide $ 500 million for hope vi so that it may continue its important role in rehabilitating our nation 's public housing .  the cbc budget also provides an additional $ 880 million for section 8 housing programs , preserving and expanding this vital safety net program for millions of people .  mr. chairman , the cbc substitute is a strong and compassionate budget that meets the needs of the american people .  i urge my colleagues to support it and to reject the republican budget .  mr. chairman , i thank the gentleman from south carolina ( mr. spratt )  for yielding me time .  at some point tomorrow , the congressional black caucus will be introducing an alternative budget which we will discuss in detail .  unfortunately , we have been allotted only 20 minutes on our side to discuss the details of that proposed , budget and i am delighted that the committee on the budget has seen fit to provide us a little bit more time this evening to discuss some of the benefits we believe will enure if the congressional black caucus budget is adopted .  we will be asking the members of our house of representatives to make some basic choices because we believe that a budget is about making choices .  there are two choices in particular we will be asking them to consider : would you rather provide a tax cut to people who make more than $ 200 , 000 per year , or would you rather spend approximately $ 30 billion dollars that you would save if you did not provide that tax cut on a series of things that would benefit our community and have a substantial potential of closing some of the disparities and gaps that have existed for years and years between african american citizens and white citizens in this country ?  the second question we will be asking will be : would you rather spend $ 7.9 billion on a ballistic missile defense program which has been tested time after time after time and has failed all of those tests , or would you rather spend that $ 7.8 billion on providing more security to our troops , body armor , personnel support equipment , and other protective gear for our troops , and providing more benefits to our veterans in this country ?  this is a basic choice that we at this point need to debate .  our budget that we will be submitting and detailing tomorrow morning when we offer the congressional black caucus substitute budget will ask congress , what are your priorities ?  that is what budget-making is about .  and there is no trickery here .  it is straightforward , and we will be asking our members to make those choices .  mr. chairman , i thank the gentleman from south carolina ( mr. spratt )  and the gentleman from iowa ( chairman nussle ) for providing the congressional black caucus a little extra time to talk about the cbc budget , and i want to summarize what our proposed budget which we will be introducing tomorrow will do .  it will roll back the tax cuts on people with adjusted gross incomes that exceed $ 200 , 000 per year .  most of the revenue raised in the cbc budget will be used to address disparities in america 's communities .  a substantial portion is reserved to reduce the deficit .  on the military side , we would roll back $ 7.8 billion in ballistic missile defense spending leaving using $ 1 billion for research to continue regarding the ballistic missile defense system .  all of these funds are spent on other defense items to support our troops , homeland security needs , and veterans program and benefits .  the total for defense , homeland security , and veterans is equal to the republican budget .  the bottom line is that the cbc budget addresses critical domestic challenges and supports our troops .  the cbc budget reduces the deficit by $ 167 billion compared to the house majority 's budget over the next 5 years .  this fiscal responsibility is rewarded by a reduction of $ 27 billion in interest payments , compared to the house majority 's budget over that 5-year period .  we will have a responsible budget , and i look forward to having the support of our colleagues in this body and look forward to discussing the proposed cbc budget in more detail tomorrow when our substitute is presented to the house .  mr. chairman , i thank the gentlewoman for yielding me time .  let me just go through some of the things that the congressional black caucus budget will do in various areas .  we are planning to submit this budget tomorrow , and we will be adding an additional $ 1 billion in the international affairs category for foreign aid to africa and the caribbean , global aids initiative in the state department , public health and preventable illness initiatives .  we will be adding half a billion dollars in general science , space and technology in the following areas : nasa research and development , nasa space shuttle safety , restore research and development funding for the national science foundation , department of energy .  we will be adding an additional $ 50 million in the natural resources and environment , historically black colleges and university preservation program .  we will be adding $ 300 million in the agriculture budget in support of the 1890 land-grant historically black colleges and universities , expanded food and nutrition education programs , the u.s. department of agriculture office of civil rights .  and we will be restoring and modifying some of the draconian cuts in agriculture programs that affect minorities in particular .  we will be adding $ 1 billion in commerce and housing credit for sba loan programs , the 7 ( a ) program , microloan , and new market venture programs , adult training and dislocated worker programs , manufacturing extension partnerships , home ownership initiatives .  we will be adding $ 150 million in transportation , most of which will go to amtrak .  we will be adding $ 1.5 billion to community and regional development to restore the cuts that have been proposed by the president in the community development block grants , increased funding for brownfields economic development , empowerment zones , community development , financial institutions , economic development assistance .  we will be adding $ 23.9 billion in education and training with which we will fully fund the no child left behind .  that is $ 12 billion to fully fund no child left behind .  we will be adding $ 50 million to elementary and secondary school counseling , vocational training , job training , adult education , pell grants , head start , individuals with disabilities , idea , historically black colleges and universities , hispanic serving institutions , trio , gaining early awareness of readiness .  that is the gear-up program , restoring that .  perkins loans , impact aid .  in the area of health we will be adding $ 1 billion .  in the area of administration of justice we will be adding $ 1 billion .  and over on the defense side we are going to be adding money for body armor , personal support equipment , and other protective gear for our troops , ammunition for the marine corps , small arms for the army .  we will be adding $ 4.65 billion for veterans programs , veterans health care , survivor benefit plans , disabled veterans plans , prosthetic needs for veterans , va medical and prosthetic research , mental health care for veterans .  and we will be adding $ 2 billion in homeland security for rail security and port security .  now , you are wondering how can the congressional black caucus do all of this ?  it is simple .  simply roll back the tax cut on people who make above $ 200 , 000 a year .  and all we are saying to our members in this body is that these things that i have just described are much higher priorities .  even to people that i know who make more than $ 200 , 000 a year , they think these things are higher priorities than getting a little extra tax cut .  and i just entreat my members to please support the congressional black caucus budget .  it is a sane budget .  it is good .  mr. chairman , i yield myself 3 minutes .  mr. chairman , i thank the gentlemen for their kind words .  if you listened to them , it would make it sound like we have the same budget , but i want to assure you and our colleagues that that is not the case .  and i want to assure you that by the end of this debate , you are going to know what the differences are .  we set out at the beginning of this congress to set an agenda for the congressional black caucus .  our agenda is about closing disparities that exist between african american citizens and other citizens in this country and have persisted over time .  they involve closing the achievement and opportunity gaps in education , closing the gaps in health care for every american , closing the gaps in employment and economic security in wealth and business opportunity in our country , closing the gaps that continue to exist in our justice system , closing the gaps that continue to exist in retirement security for our citizens , and closing the inequities that have persisted throughout our history in foreign policy .  is it true that we have a different set of priorities ?  you bet we do .  to close these disparities , we have set a different course , and we decided that it was more important to devote resources to closing these gaps and closing these disparities than it was to give a tax cut to people who make above $ 200 , 000 a year .  we decided that these priorities were more important than continuing to fund a ballistic missile defense program that has already failed every single test that it has undergone .  we believe that the education of our children is more important than tax cuts for people over $ 200 , 000 .  i am not here to make any excuses about that .  i want every member of this congress to understand that that is a choice that we have made and that is a choice that we are calling on this congress to make .  the people in my district who make over $ 200 , 000 a year have told me that they would rather educate our children and fully fund no child left behind than they would have a tax cut .  so this is a question of what your priorities are , no ifs , ands , buts about it .  that is what you will be voting on today .  mr. chairman , i reserve the balance of my time .  mr. chairman , how much time remains ?  mr. chairman , i thank the gentleman for yielding me the time .  mr. chairman , i yield 1 minute to the gentlewoman from georgia ( ms. mckinney )  , and i would like to wish her a happy birthday today .  she thought i did not know that .  mr. chairman , i was hoping that the gentleman would give us a little bit more time .  i have two speakers left .  madam chairman , i demand a recorded vote .  madam chairman , i withdraw my reservation of objection .  mr. speaker , the budget and appropriation bills that we pass here in the house are reflective of our values as leaders in this country .  h.r. 3010 reflects very poorly on this congress .  four years ago , when we passed the no child left behind act , we told schools that we wanted them to be accountable for results and that we would provide them with the resources necessary to achieve these results .  today , we know that the president and the republican congress have utterly failed to keep the bipartisan promise to students , to parents , to teachers , to provide schools with the resources called for by no child left behind .  if we pass this bill , we will have shortchanged our nation 's children by more than $ 40 billion over the past 4 years .  this is only one of the many , many , many ways that this bill fails to invest in the american people and their children .  and i urge my colleagues to oppose it .  mr. chairman , i thank the chairman and the ranking member , but i am deeply concerned about a possible indian gambling casino in the columbia river gorge national scenic area .  i have had these concerns for at least 7 years , and i am extremely disappointed in recent developments .  the governor of oregon signed a compact with this tribe on april 6 and it was presented to the department of the interior on april 8. i have been consistent in my position and i have privately informed the confederate tribes of the warm springs reservation and governor kulongoski and his predecessor governor kitzaber throughout my congressional career that i specifically do not support a casino in the columbia river gorge national scenic area , and that generally i oppose off-reservation gaming casinos .  i have persisted in suggesting to the warm springs tribe that they consider a new location on reservation land along a highly traveled route , namely highway 26 , between portland , oregon , and bend , oregon .  this particular proposal came to the federal government on april 8 , and it is necessary that i weigh in now .  i am asking secretary norton to disapprove the tribal-state compact , because this casino will hurt the columbia river gorge , other tribes and all oregonians .  i understand the secretary intends to approve this compact , but that only starts the process .  i am here to tell the secretary and the tribe that congress will not be silent while the crown jewel of oregon 's natural heritage gets trashed .  i have been a supporter of preserving the columbia river gorge national scenic area and i will continue to do so .  a casino of this magnitude will bring over 3 million non-gorge-related visitors per year , a million cars per year to the area , and exacerbate traffic , pollution , and risks to endangered species in the columbia river gorge national scenic area .  i am pro-gorge , and i am troubled that there is a possibility of disturbing this crown jewel of oregon 's natural heritage .  i will actively oppose this proposal and do everything i can to protect the gorge .  state and federal agencies have already determined that air quality in the columbia river gorge is significantly degraded and that visibility is impaired 95 percent of the time within this national scenic area .  also , according to the united states department of agriculture forest service pacific southwest research station , this area suffers acid rain and fog as severe as what falls in industrial cities such as los angeles , pittsburgh , and new york .  mr. chairman , states such as oregon , nevada , louisiana , rhode island , and south dakota derive state taxes from casinos , slot machines , and lotteries for more than 10 percent of their overall state revenues .  oregon must not become further dependent on gambling .  in all the states i listed , budgetary problems persist and gambling does not solve their problems .  we should not sacrifice our national treasures , our communities , or our souls upon the alter of indian casino gambling .  mr. chairman , first , i want to thank the chairman for yielding these 4 minutes to me .  one of the hazards of being one of the lowest in seniority on this side of the aisle is that we run out of time so quickly .  so i thank the chairman for yielding this time .  i want to thank the ranking member for the work he has done in the process .  mr. chairman , i represent north carolina 's 1st district .  we are the 15th poorest district in america .  we are working very hard to lift our communities in meaningful ways and it is difficult .  the one area in which we are succeeding is in the area of making higher educational opportunities more available to minority and low-income students .  i am so proud of the fact that we are beginning to eliminate the educational disparity that exists between black , white and brown .  one program , mr. chairman , that has significantly contributed to this success is the trio program .  trio programs are working .  this program is serving 6 , 200 young people in my district , a total of 17 projects .  across the country , more than 870 , 000 low-income americans are being served .  trio has a talent search program which serves young people in grades 6 through 12 .  in addition to counseling , participants receive information about college admissions requirements , scholarships and various student financial aid programs .  this early intervention program helps people from families with incomes under $ 24 , 000 to better understand their educational opportunities and options .  over 387 , 000 americans are enrolled in 471 talent search programs .  the president 's budget and the republican budget eliminates these programs entirely .  trio has an upward bound program which helps young students to prepare for higher education .  participants receive instruction in literature , composition , mathematics and science on college campuses after school , on saturdays and during the summer .  currently , 770 programs are in operation throughout the country .  this program , mr. chairman , is scheduled for extinction .  the alternative congressional black caucus budget is a responsible document , and i want to thank the gentleman from north carolina ( mr. watt )  and the gentleman from virginia ( mr. scott )  for the work that they have done in developing this great document .  this budget restores funding for trio .  it reduces spending while maintaining strong funding for national defense and homeland security .  mr. chairman , i urge my colleagues to oppose the republican budget and to vote for the congressional black caucus budget as this budget restores funding for the trio program which is a very , very deserving program .  mr. speaker , i rise today to express my concern about the current state of our nation 's budget woes .  i 've been running the family ranch for several years and i know what it means to work within a budget .  you may have to count your pennies , but you spend your money where it matters the most to you and your community .  this administration proposes to cut funding for agricultural programs in addition to denying promised benefits to veterans and military widows .  these are the wrong priorities for our country .  we can not pass the burden of the debt onto the backs of our farmers and veterans .  agriculture is the backbone of this great nation .  i have always said that there are only two things that can bring this country down -- our dependence on other countries to produce our food and our dependence on foreign oil .  agriculture must become a real part of our renewable energy supply .  research and education are the only way we can grow and develop these new technologies .  this is the worst time to cut agriculture research programs .  desperate times call for desperate measures , but turning our backs on our country 's service personnel and veterans is n't desperate , it 's crazy .  we need to put our resources toward meeting the promises we have made to our veterans , servicemen , and their families -- in rural colorado , that means making sure that veterans do n't have to drive five hours to get the health care they were promised .  i will never support breaking the promise to the brave men and women who served our country in the name of freedom and democracy .  i am a proud member of the congressional blue dog coalition , a group of democrats that fights for fiscal responsibility .  fiscal responsibility means spending your money where it matters most .  we can do that without increasing taxes .  first off -- our nation 's taxpayers deserve an honest budget that gives an account of all future spending .  if this administration wants to privatize social security , then the budget should have included the trillions of dollars it would take to change the system .  secondly -- we need to reduce the deficit .  as a farmer , i know this firsthand -- you ca n't spend money you do n't have .  congress is already facing a $ 589 billion dollar deficit -- increasing the amount of our national debt to $ 1 trillion dollars .  the blue dog coalition created a 12 point reform plan to cure the nation 's addiction to deficit spending .  for starters , the blue dog plan would require that any new spending would have to be paid for .  this common-sense rule , `` pay-as-you-go '' is mandatory in colorado .  in the 1990 's , `` pay-as-you-go '' brought the budget into surplus and is supported by federal reserve chairman alan greenspan .  our plan also includes a provision for a `` rainy day fund '' in case there is a need for emergency spending .  neither the administration 's budget , nor the democratic alternative , incorporate a single component of the blue dog 12 point plan .  as members of congress , we must discuss a budget that has included input from both parties .  it is for that reason , i voted `` no '' on both budget proposals .  i will not vote for an increase in taxes .  and i will not vote to cut the programs that matter to our communities .  the federal government and this congress need to take a lesson from small business owners and get back to creating a budget where all the numbers add up .  mr. chairman , i believe very strongly in balancing our budget and reducing the deficit , but i think we need to set certain priorities that are important to our families .  my hope is that we do this in a bipartisan approach , that we develop a consensus , and i do want to thank the gentleman from iowa and the committee for allowing us to put some committee report language dealing with education in the budget and with results-oriented budgeting which i believe we need here at this house .  we need to balance the budget , but i think we need to protect our families and we need to make sure that we ensure that we are not trying to fix the deficit on the backs of the country 's working class .  the budget includes the termination of 150 programs .  nearly one in three of them are in education .  it eliminates programs essential to our children 's futures , such as even start , upward bound , talent search , gear up , perkins loans , pell grants and leap programs .  it also does not allow us to give the full funding for special education .  it also eliminates certain programs , such as the vocational education , nearly $ 1.3 billion in cuts .  the safe and drug-free schools state programs which are so vital to our communities is eliminated .  again , i believe in education .  in my life , education has been one of the most invaluable tools that has made it possible for me to open up doors , move forward to attain higher goals and make my dreams a possibility .  i feel very strongly about financial aid .  in fact , i think we need to restore the funding to these vital education programs , especially increasing the $ 100 maximum pell grant award .  this fulfills the president 's request of increasing the maximum pell grant by $ 100 without paying for it by taking from other parts of the education budget .  as a member of the committee on the budget , i think we should ensure that the federal government investment is available to fulfill our commitment to helping low income students get into and graduate from college .  college enrollment is slated to grow by almost 19 percent between now and 2015 .  this group increasingly will be comprised of full-time , nontraditional students , college age , first generation , low income and minority students .  most of these will likely need and will qualify for student financial aid .  my test for considering any budget proposal is whether it will make our families stronger .  this budget proposal in my opinion does not make our families stronger .  i urge our colleagues to vote in favor of strengthening and protecting our young children by protecting education .  mr. chairman , again , i hope we do this in a bipartisan approach and find a consensus .  mr. speaker , on this sunday , i have looked into my heart and listened to my god in prayer , and spoken to my pastor and other parishioners in church .  my decision this evening is an intensely personal one , in terms of life .  as a father , husband , grandfather , and son in law , i have searched my soul about what the family must be going through .  as a member of congress , i know it is in our hands to offer what is the ultimate hope for this young woman .  we can not guarantee how the courts will rule , but we must offer all avenues for review and hope .  we would ask nothing less for any case involving the rights of a person .  we must be compassionate about life , the life of all individuals .  this is a tragic situation , but this young woman is not on life support , she is not on a respirator , she is not terminally ill , and she has been deprived of the physical therapy that might allow her to swallow and eat without a feeding tube .  to look at her eyes is to see an individual who seems to be experiencing joy and awareness of others .  as a parent , if she were my daughter , i would want her to live , and give her a chance .  she has demonstrated the will and the spirit to live .  it is right and just that we have a final set of eyes to review the case .  the constitution gives congress the right to set the jurisdiction of the courts .  mr. speaker , i thank the gentleman for yielding me time .  i do not know what to do tonight .  i honestly do not .  if terri schiavo were here , she could tell us what she would like her fate to be under this circumstance .  those who say that we are condemning her to death by starvation , that may be so if action is not taken tonight .  but it may also be so that you may be condemning her to a life that she might not choose were she here to choose that .  some of us have spoken on both sides of the aisle of holding our loved one in our hands as they died , having made the decision not to have heroic measures .  for 23 years before working in this body , i served as a clinical neuropsychologist .  i have been with many patients in persistent vegetative state .  i wish life were different .  i really wish it were .  i will tell members the stories like the gentleman from arizona ( mr. franks )  and others about sudden recoveries , where people almost miraculously or magically are better and return to their former state are apocryphal for the most part .  after years of coma , people do not return to who they were before .  what happens is we have a brain stem that is miraculously robust at protecting breathing and heart rate , but it is our cortex that makes us who we are and that cortex dies when it is deprived of oxygen and we effectively die with it .  and i am sorry about that .  it is so tragic .  i honestly do not know what to do .  but for anybody to try to imply that people on one side or the other do not care about this woman is not right or fair , on either side .  this is an american tragedy but , more importantly , it is a personal tragedy .  and people on both sides are pro life in the richness and complexity and difficulty of it .  some are trying to do their best to honor what they believe are this woman 's wishes to not live condemned to a bed where she can not speak or enjoy the higher virtues of life she might choose .  and if she did indeed say i would not choose the fate of being condemned to this bed , then we are denying her that right to make the choice .  that is the challenge here tonight , my friends .  but let no one who leaves this body somehow imply that whichever the vote is taken , one side or the other does not respect life in its richness .  we are all pro life .  we all feel for this family .  and also let no one believe that we are somehow saving this woman from a horrific fate whichever route we choose .  mr. speaker , you have heard all the legal arguments , all the moral arguments .  we see these things differently , and i understand that .  i am here to speak for myself .  i have a living will that i wrote years ago , and i will check it myself as many americans will .  the bottom line is , i do not want you interfering with my wife and me .  leave us alone .  let us make our own decisions .  it is not up to you .  that has always been the way it has been in this country , and that is the way it should be .  for 6 years i have been hearing how the nuclear family is all we care about .  now we do not .  stay out of my family .  if you can do it here , you can do it to me .  you can do it to every one of my constituents .  leave us alone .  let my nuclear family make my decisions and my wife 's decisions without your input .  mr. speaker , i rise in opposition to the legislation .  mr. speaker , i rise first to extend my thoughts and prayers to the loved ones of teresa marie schiavo at this extraordinarily difficult time .  america has seen the anguish in the faces of ms. schiavo 's family members .  the legislation we are considering will determine whether we will send to federal court one case that has been adjudicated in florida 's state courts for nearly a decade .  for the past seven years , this particular case has traveled through florida 's state court system .  the florida courts determined through a review of testimony that , as her husband has testified , terri schiavo would not have wanted her life continued by artificial means .  this congress has chosen to disregard the ruling of the state court , the appeals court and florida 's supreme court .  this bill stands in stark contrast to the principles of federalism , and it is the wrong direction for this congress to take .  but as this debate is carried out before the entire world , it is clear that the issue is far more fundamental than state versus federal jurisdiction .  the issue before us involves one of the most personal and controversial matters we face as humans : how do we deal with end-of-life care decisions for patients who can not speak for themselves ?  certainly not through this unprecedented act of intrusion into a personal family matter .  i believe the authors of this bill know that this is not the correct approach .  section 9 of this bill includes a `` sense of congress that the 109th congress should consider policies regarding the status and legal rights of incapacitated individuals who are incapable of making decisions concerning the provision , withholding or withdrawal of foods , fluids , or medical care. '' when to stop life support when a person has no chance of recovery is an arduous decision .  it is for that reason that congress passed in 1990 the patient self-determination act as part of obra '90 , which requires all hospitals , long term care facilities , home health agencies , hospice programs and hmos that receive medicare and medicaid dollars to recognize a patient 's living will and power of attorney for health care as advance directives .  health care organizations must provide patients with written information about establishing an advance directive and document if the patient has an advance directive that is placed in the patient 's medical record .  patients are then able to decide in advance what medical treatment they want to receive if they become physically or mentally unable to communicate their wishes .  this piece of legislation gives patients the right to make choices and decisions about the types and extent of medical care they wish for themselves .  with this act , patients can specify if they want to accept or refuse specific medical care .  they can also identify a legal representative for urgent health care decision purposes .  then if they become unable to make decisions due to illness , the patients ' wishes have been clearly documented at an earlier point of time .  unfortunately , ms. schiavo did not execute an advance directive .  there is conflicting information as to her wishes as expressed by her husband and parents .  that conflict was resolved by the appropriate florida court .  it is not appropriate for congress to pass special legislation for this one case .  fifteen years after the passage of the patient self-determination act , the vast majority of americans have not completed an advance directive .  my colleague in the senate , bill nelson , has introduced legislation that would improve compliance with the 1990 legislation and provide a benefit under medicare for end-of-life consultation .  that is the bill congress should move as we debate this complex issue , not the bill that 's currently before us .  if we enact this bill , it could very well result in an avalanche of cases in federal court .  according to medical experts , as many as 35 , 000 americans -- nearly one-third of them children -- are in a condition similar to that of terri schiavo .  their families face the same difficult decision-making process that ms. schiavo 's parents and husband are contending with .  i believe most americans would agree that the last thing we want to do is encourage more divisive court cases and bills of this nature .  regardless of the outcome of this vote , there will be no clear winners at the conclusion of this debate .  our judicial system and the rights of patients and their next-of-kin to make end-of-life decisions with their providers will be clear losers .  congress should never have considered this legislation .  mr. speaker , i thank the gentleman for yielding me this time , a girl from indianapolis , indiana .  for the life of me , i can not understand why we are here .  we were all snatched out of our houses of worship to run to washington to violate the trial of the judicial , the legislative , and the administrative .  but i guess the leadership understands what it is .  they are calling it a wedge between democrats and republicans , i am calling it what is right and what is wrong .  we have no business being here .  there are families across this country who are losing their medicare right now because of the policy we set , and they can not get any more .  the doctors are screaming .  i am sure a lot of people have heard them .  they are screaming to their congress people saying give our medicare and our medicaid back or else we can not treat these patients .  yet we are going to make one single case in florida get all the medicare they want .  my heart goes out to this family .  i know this is a very dark season for them .  i know justice will prevail and god will have the last answer .  but congress should not have the last answer because it is none of our business .  this is called meddling .  mr. speaker , tonight i join millions of floridians and americans hoping and praying for terri and her family at this incredibly difficult time .  terri schiavo 's case is a tragedy we all hope and pray our own families will never go through .  and tonight this congress is about to commit a travesty .  i think we can agree the impact of this legislation extends far beyond terri schiavo .  tonight , congressional leaders are poised to appoint this congress as a judge and a jury .  these actions are a threat to our democracy .  more than 200 years ago , our forefathers designed government with three separate , yet equal , branches .  this congress is about to overturn the separation of powers by disregarding the laws of florida and the decision of a judge that have never been reversed .  this congress is on the verge of telling states and judges and juries that their laws , their decisions do not matter .  multiple courts have had an opportunity to rule in terri 's case , including the united states supreme court , federal district courts , and the florida supreme court .  as justice scalia has said himself in end-of-life cases like this , `` the federal courts have no business in this field .  american law has always accorded this power to the states. '' this congress should respect the law and the rulings of courts and not trample the constitution .  if we do not draw a line in the sand tonight , what limit is there to the democratic principles that this congress is prepared to violate ?  what limit is there to the liberties that we might trample upon ?  for those of us that are floridians , this is a very painful issue .  not just because we represent many , many people , democrats , republicans or people that are not particularly political who have living wills , who have wishes they expect to be honored and not interfered with .  we are also deeply saddened because we have been in the middle of this saga for quite some time , and it is very important you know this is just the latest chapter .  in 2003 , unhappy with the decisions of the court , the governor and the state legislature in florida attempted to change the rules that controlled terri 's wishes and to pass what was referred to as terri 's law , giving governor bush the authority to reinsert the feeding tube .  the florida supreme court ruled that law unconstitutional , and the united states supreme court refused to hear governor bush 's appeal .  last week , the florida legislature and the governor attempted yet a second time to change the rules that would cover the enforcement of what was found to be terri 's wishes .  for the good of floridians , for the good of the country , after the house had passed the bill and the governor continued to pursue it , very courageous members of the florida senate and the florida house , on both sides , democrats and republicans , refused to make the same mistake a second time .  one of the top republicans in the florida house said , `` the legislature should stay out of family court issues. '' the state legislation that failed in the state senate died when some of the leading republican senators said , `` we can not and should not sacrifice our oaths as political officers on the altar of political convenience. '' these were state legislators recognizing the limits of their power .  here tonight in the united states congress , will we recognize the appropriate limits of our power ?  leading the charge in this debate are several physicians who are members of congress .  i think it is fair to say none of them have examined terri schiavo .  i seriously doubt any of them had a chance to review the medical records .  instead , many of them , many members of congress , are forced to rely upon a videotape that is several years old that does not begin to tell the story .  let us keep in mind neither this house nor senate has had a single hearing , has heard from a single witness , has provided any meaningful opportunity for the public to participate in this very important debate .  the bill under consideration tonight essentially does one thing : it starts the process all over again with a different judge , an attempt to achieve a different result , a different finding as to terri 's wishes or simply to delay the enforcement of her wishes .  it has been described by the chairman of the committee that what this bill does , if i heard him correctly , is to provide an opportunity for terri 's parents to assert their rights under the united states constitution .  they have always had that right .  they had that right in state court .  they had that right in federal court .  they had that right in the united states supreme court , which turned down the appeal .  this bill does not create any new rights .  it simply creates a new judge in an attempt to achieve a different result or to delay a different decision .  one of the chief senate sponsors of the bill said earlier today that the purpose and the effect of the bill in his judgment was to cause the federal judge who will hear this case to reinsert the tube .  before we vote tonight , i would like to ask the members to ask one question of themselves .  if this were their family , if they some day , and i hope they do not and i hope i do not , find themselves in this tragic situation , one of the most tragic we will ever experience in our lives , and they and their wife had come to a conclusion about what they want as a couple or individually as to how they end their life , how would they feel if elected officials they had never met who did not know them thought their judgment was superior to theirs ?  how would they feel if that affected them and their spouse ?  i have followed this case for years .  my views tonight are the same as they have been always .  this case is about terri 's will as interpreted by the courts , god 's will , and it should not be about the will of the united states congress .  sadly , regardless of what this congress does tonight , everyone may lose .  terri 's husband may lose his wife .  their parents may lose a daughter .  my hearts and prayers go out to terri and her family .  mr. speaker , i yield myself 6 minutes .  mr. speaker , it is never a good recommendation for a bill when its proponents deny its plain meaning .  the gentleman from wisconsin said this is not a private bill .  well , perhaps in the technical and irrelevant terms of the house calendar it is not a private bill .  it is in fact a very private bill .  it is so private that it deals only with the schiavo case and her parents .  and in an admission that it is not a very good idea , a provision of this bill , really quite unusual , says by the way , we hope no one will pay attention to this in the future .  in legal language , that is , this is not to be precedent setting .  well , if this is such a good idea , if congress acting as the super supreme court of florida is the right thing to do for ms. schiavo , why go to such pains , those of you who wrote the bill , to say it should not be a precedent ?  by the way , anyone who thinks it will not be a precedent , of course , is not paying attention .  what you will do today , if this bill passes , is invite every family dispute of this terrible , painful , heartrending nature to come to the congress .  when brothers and sisters disagree , when parents disagree , the courts of the states will have no relevance ; probably the federal courts will not .  every single dispute will come here .  now , here is what we are doing here , and it is not the federalism argument that bothers me as much as it is the separation of powers .  we have already heard debates .  what was the fee in the legal case ?  what about the hospice ?  does she or does she not , this poor woman who was so terribly hurt , does she or does she not have brain function ?  does she or does she not respond ?  nobody in here knows .  nobody in here has any way of knowing .  what we have are members choosing a side based on their ideologies .  there are people who believe , in what is described as pro life , that nothing that terminates a life is ever justified .  in fact , people have said , well , if she had said so , but many of those who hold that do not think you have a right to say that .  there are others of us who believe , and i must tell you , from what i have read , if i were a member of the schiavo family , if a member of my family were involved , i would have made the same decision .  but i have n't made the decision .  i have no right to make that decision , and i have no information for it .  separation of powers .  when they wrote the constitution , they were not kidding around .  they made some sensible distinctions .  we legislate on broad policy .  when you get to individual ajudications , when you get to the case , people have said , well , we disagree with the medical report .  we had the eminent dr .  frist looking at it on television and making his diagnosis .  we have people making specific judgments about her wishes .  we have people making specific judgments about her medical condition .  we have not spent very much time on that .  judges have done that , lawyers have done that , in adversarial proceedings they have done that .  now , i know we heard a disparagement of the supreme court of florida .  people did not like the way they voted 4 years ago , but what does that have to do with whether or not the husband 's wishes and wife 's wishes are carried out in this case ?  that is why we should not be making this decision .  if you listen to the debate , this is confirmation of what the writers of the constitution did when they said separation of powers .  congress deals with broad policy .  individual adjudications are made by judges , with cases of lawyers and presentations and evidence .  none of that has happened here .  you are asking to make a decision based on most of us knowing very little , if anything , at all .  ideology is driving this , and that is why we have a separation of powers .  this is not a bill , by the way .  this is a court decision .  what happened has been that this has been very well litigated in florida , litigated on a number of occasions , with lawyers on all sides .  because the majority , for their ideological reasons , do not like the decision of the florida courts , we have now a new principle ; that the congress of the united states will be the super supreme court of a state .  in lawyers terms , we can vacate a judgment and then remand it .  but not even remand it .  not send it back to the court that decided it , to a better court .  talk about forum shopping .  people wanted to get rid of forum shopping .  this is the grandparent of all forum shops .  we dislike what the courts in florida have done , so we cancel their decision and we send it elsewhere .  the gentleman from wisconsin said this does not create any new rights .  well , it gives standing by its own terms to the parents .  and , by the way , if it does not create any new rights , why is it necessary ?  if in fact without this bill no new rights have been created , why could they not have gone to court without us ?  the answer is they could not .  because that is not what american jurisprudence has said .  i believe , as i said , if i were making this decision for myself or anyone close to me , i would make the same decision michael schiavo made .  but i would not try to defend my judgment in this case .  i do not know her medical condition .  i do not know what her wishes were .  but neither do any of you .  this is as difficult a decision as human beings can make .  i am proud to be a politician , but i think we would all agree that you should not make this kind of a decision , this kind of a decision about life , in these terribly emotional circumstances .  it should not be made politically .  i think we would all agree to that .  but then let us look at the corollary .  if you do not want a decision to be made politically , why in the world do you ask 535 politicians to make it ?  does anyone think that this decision will be made without consideration of electoral support or party of ideology ?  of course not .  and again , this is not the only case .  people should understand that , those who are watching what we do .  despite your argument that this is not setting a precedent , every aggrieved party in any similar litigation can now come to congress and ask us to make a series of decisions .  this is the point .  this is a terribly difficult decision , which we are institutionally totally incompetent to make .  to allow ideology to triumph in that context is a shame .  mr. speaker , i yield myself 1 minute .  the gentleman from wisconsin in an effort to find an inconsistency quoted me as being for habeas corpus so people can have their day in court .  i am .  i do not ever remember supporting a bill in congress where we decided person by person who got the right of habeas corpus and who did not .  my argument is a separation-of-powers argument .  yes , i believe a general right to go to court when you have claimed there has been an error in your criminal procedure makes sense , but we are not talking about that here .  we are talking about , despite his claim that this is not a private bill , a private bill , a bill that names one individual and allows this individual to do it .  mr. speaker , i yield myself 1 minute .  mr. speaker , the previous impassioned speech from a gentleman who legitimately and genuinely holds a very strong opinion here is exactly why we should not , as a congress , be deciding this issue .  he made a number of statements about her medical condition .  none of us are in a position to know what her medical condition is .  there are procedures in the state of florida which have been gone through exhaustively to determine that .  doctors have testified one way or another .  doctors have examined her , some doctors have not examined her .  that is precisely the point .  the arguments the gentleman is making exemplify why this needs to be a case-by-case decision , not a legislative decision .  mr. speaker , i yield myself 1 minute .  the caption tonight ought to be `` we are not doctors .  we just play them on c-span. '' the point is this : the gentleman is making specific medical arguments .  he has said , in strong criticism of the entire judicial system of the state of florida , that they did not give her a fair chance ; that the entire judicial system , all of those appeals , all of those trials , all of that litigation , that that did not give her a fair chance and we will now vacate the judgment of florida .  and why ?  not because any of us know one thing or another , but because many members here genuinely have a strong ideological interest , and that is precisely why this ought to be a judicial decision and not a legislative decision .  mr. speaker , i reserve my time .  mr. speaker , i yield 3 1/2 minutes to the gentlewoman from washington , d.c .  ( ms. norton )  .  mr. speaker , i reserve the balance of my time .  mr. speaker , i reserve the balance of my time .  mr. speaker , i yield myself 45 seconds .  the gentleman 's remarks again emphasize that this is a judicial and not a legislative case .  he says there are aspects of this case that call for judicial review .  that is why we have courts .  yes , other people can get other federal review by general statutes .  none of the other cases he mentioned are in federal courts because a particular bill was passed in a particular situation to send them there based on a review of those facts .  the gentleman is entitled to his view of the facts as he said .  there are aspects of this case that lead him to think that it should go back into court .  that is what courts are for .  he has just described the antithesis of a legislative decision , particularly since almost none of the members have either as much information as he does .  mr. speaker , i reserve the balance of my time .  mr. speaker , i yield myself 30 seconds .  it is true that the constitution gives congress the right to provide the jurisdiction of the courts .  this bill does that for one individual , which , as the gentleman from georgia 's comments make clear , it is based on the facts of the one case .  this is not an act of legislation , this is a case-by-case adjudication because members here genuinely dislike the outcome of the florida court system .  mr. speaker , i reserve the balance of my time .  mr. speaker , i yield myself 15 seconds .  we just heard what would have made an excellent summary in the legal case in this matter , but not a legislative argument .  we heard very specific allegations and arguments which are hotly contested about the individual case .  the americans with disabilities act was a general law .  it has nothing to do with this individual case here .  mr. speaker , i reserve the balance of my time .  mr. speaker , i yield myself 20 seconds .  the gentleman from wisconsin ( mr. sensenbrenner )  earlier implied that i was being inconsistent because i said i was for habeas corpus .  he quoted something .  he has just cited the inadequacy of habeas corpus in this case .  yes , i am for habeas corpus .  this goes , as he just acknowledged , far beyond it .  secondly , he acknowledged our objections to this individual private bill on one case by blaming the senate .  in other words , he has acknowledged that this is an inappropriate bill and that is all we have said .  mr. speaker , i yield the balance of my time to the gentleman from maryland ( mr. hoyer )  , our whip , the ranking member on our side who is here tonight , to close on our side .  the minority leader , who is traveling overseas , is unable , obviously , to be here .  mr. speaker , on that i demand the yeas and nays .  mr. speaker , we are turning a sad family tragedy into a grotesque legislative travesty .  it is a tragedy .  but what we are talking about tonight is nothing other than inserting our judgment for the courts .  today every day in every county in america , families , doctors , hospital chaplains are making life-and-death decisions , tough decisions and tender decisions .  each one has its own circumstance , and congress can not reasonably understand each and should not be involved .  for 215 years it has been a solid principle of this country that congress is not involved in issues like this .  today in church at palm sunday services , i read the bulletin , and as is the usual practice there was a list of the sick and hospitalized , the homebound .  i read each name .  there are some family tragedies in that list and some tragedies yet to come .  but those families would not want congress to send them to one court or another for a review .  this evening i had dinner with a family , my own relatives who yesterday and today had visited the hospital where the family decided to remove the feeding tube from a loved one .  they came out of the hospital to find , to their dismay , that congress is second guessing their decision .  imagine how they feel .  why should they believe that congress will stay out of their personal affairs ?  by the way , why are we debating this case ?  i do not want to be too cynical , but could it be that the tv cameras are rolling ?  doctors sometimes make the wrong decisions , mr. speaker .  families sometimes make the wrong decisions .  but the wisdom of the founders of this government in not putting these decisions in the congress is that they understood that most of the time we would make the wrong decisions .  we do not know the facts of this case or thousands of others that are out there today despite assertions to the contrary tonight .  that is why we should not , we should not , substitute our judgment for the courts .  congress should not play doctor , certainly not by long-distance video or hearsay diagnosis , nor should we be the judiciary .  if congress wants to avoid tragedies like this , we should deal with policy questions , such as adequate home care for the 8 million americans who need it and see that medicare and medicaid provide adequate long-term care .  yes , we should spend our time that way , and every member of this body should spend the time tonight talking with their family members about advanced medical directives and living wills .  that is something we can do to help prevent tragedies like this .  mr. speaker , reserving the right to object , and if the majority leader will answer a question , it is my understanding that we have an agreement that there will be , pursuant to this unanimous consent request , debate on the pending piece of business , the house bill or the senate bill containing the house language , between 9 p.m .  and 12 midnight this day ; is that accurate ?  reclaiming my time , mr. speaker , the majority leader anticipated my next question .  and i appreciate your comments .  this is , obviously , a very serious issue and we are prepared to deal with it seriously .  we appreciate the fact that this provides for sufficient time in debate for the issues to be raised and addressed by the house of representatives .  my second question , which you have anticipated , is that in fact members can expect at 12 midnight , at the conclusion of the 3 hours of debate between 9 p.m .  and 12 midnight , for the vote to occur on the pending legislation ; is that accurate ?  i thank the gentleman for that answer .  it is also my understanding , mr. leader , that although we will recess to the call of the chair , it would be , as i understand it , the intention of the chair not to recall the house until 9 p.m .  tonight .  i thank the gentleman for those comments and would make it clear to the house , mr. speaker , that of course one of the considerations is members are trying to get back .  they have had 17 hours notice of reconvening and with the vote to occur at 12 , obviously , 9 o'clock will have been 14 hours , and the reason we did not want to go sooner is because there are members on either side of this question who would want to make their positions known .  so that is the reason for our concern .  so i appreciate the gentleman 's comment , and my expectation then is that we will go back in at 9. mr. speaker , i withdraw my reservation of objection under those representations .  the speaker ?  is there objection to the request of the gentleman from texas ?  there was no objection .  mr. speaker , this has been an extraordinarily serious debate .  it has been in many ways a real debate , with each member rising and understanding the seriousness of the issues which we consider .  on the one hand , we consider the life of one young woman , a young woman struck by tragedy , shared by her family and by her friends and by her country .  one of the striking facts of american life and american culture is the great importance that america puts on the individual : one life , one swallow that god cares for and plans for .  we are here as colleagues who have almost to a person experienced the same kind of pain and trauma that the schiavo family now faces .  the gentlewoman from ohio correctly stated that terri is loved by her husband , by her parents , by her brother , by others in her family .  those of us who have been in that place know how difficult it is .  i had not expected , as my colleagues had not expected , to be back in this house to consider this legislation .  when we were called back by the speaker , and the leader and i discussed the circumstances under which the call would come , trying to accommodate members as best as possible , i did what i presumed many of you did .  i referred to the facts that i could find .  on the one hand , my reaction was that i am concerned that we appear to be a congress that is flexible on the jurisdiction of courts .  when we agree with the decisions that courts make , we leave them jurisdiction .  when we think they may make a decision that we want , we try to give them additional jurisdiction .  but when we disagree with the courts , we have had legislation on this floor in recent months to take from them jurisdiction .  if we pursue that course as a country , i suggest to you that we will become a nation of men and of politicians , not a nation of laws .  the fact that we are a nation of laws has distinguished us very greatly from many other nations of the world , and we have held up that distinction as a critically important one .  we now have troops arrayed in iraq to support that principle , of the individual , of freedom , and of law .  so i believe tonight , mr. speaker , that every member will vote on behalf of terri schiavo tonight , but they will see their responsibility in that act differently .  i believe , mr. speaker , they will see it honestly and sincerely , and realizing the duty they have by lifting their hand and swearing an oath to our constitution and to our country .  so , mr. speaker , i did , as i said what i suppose many have done , i went to the proceedings that have occurred in the terri schiavo case , caused by the absence of a written directive .  i have three daughters , mr. speaker .  they are all adults .  they do not live with me now , but i see them regularly and i love them dearly .  and since the loss of their mother , we have become even more close .  and i heard the gentlewoman from florida ( ms. ginny brown-waite ) speak , and as i heard her speak i felt a tear when she referred to mr. wolfson , whom i do not know , but whose report i have read .  mr. wolfson was asked not by the mother and father , not by the husband , but by the state to try to determine as best he could what the medical evidence led him to conclude .  he was not an advocate of the parents or of the husband .  he perceived himself correctly as the advocate of terri schiavo .  his report is a compelling one .  the gentlewoman from florida ( ms. ginny brown-waite ) said that she knows mr. wolfson , and knows him to be a man of wisdom and deep compassion and with a sense of responsibility .  then she spoke of her own daughter and such a condition , and the discussion she had with her daughter , and i hope many of you heard her say this , that her daughter said to her that if she was in that state she would not want to be left in that state by her mother , and she said , `` no , mom , if you really loved me , you would let me go to my rest and be with god. '' if i thought the florida courts had dealt with this in a superficial and uncareful way , perhaps , perhaps i would feel that we ought to interpose our view .  but no fair reading of the court 's decision at the lower court , no fair reading of the disposition by the district court of the united states , in which they said in quoting judge altobrand of the supreme court of florida , `` not only has mrs. schiavo 's case been given due process , but few , if any similar cases , have ever been afforded this heightened level of process. '' this report is approximately 50 pages long that was issued by mr. wolfson .  i urge my friend , the gentleman from missouri ( mr. blunt )  to read this .  he said he had not .  all of us ought to read it .  this case , tragically , is not alone in the circumstances that have occurred .  the report says that the schindler family members stated that even if theresa 's family had been told of her intention , the family members , mom and dad , had been told of her intention to have artificial nutrition withdrawn , they would not do it .  all of us can understand that , hopefully .  the wrenching decision that it would be for a parent to take an action which would inevitably lead to the loss of life of their daughter .  throughout this painful and difficult trial , mr. wolfson went on , the family acknowledged that teresa was in a diagnosed persistent vegetative state .  the report seems to indicate to me that any fair reading of it would say that very careful consideration had been given .  i know that there are some doctors among us who have looked at reports and perhaps looked at tapes and concluded , contrary to the doctors who have examined her , that this was not the case .  the court , however , in an evidentiary hearing and after due consideration said clear and convincing evidence at the time of trial supported a determination that mrs. schiavo would have chosen in february 2000 to withdraw the life-prolonging procedures , so that it has been concluded by all of the fact finders in the court systems of the united states , in the state of florida , under the statutes , as the chairman has pointed out , established by the state of florida to deal with this extraordinarily difficult human issue because , like birth , death will come to us all .  to some of us it will come in a way that will not raise such wrenching questions , but some few of us will individually and with our families have to face this decision ; and properly the system should be followed to protect us so that neither a husband nor a mother nor a father nor anybody else can make that decision in a manner that is not fair , that does not have due process and does not protect us as individuals .  in reading the record , mr. speaker , i have concluded that the state of florida in its wisdom provided for that process and accomplished that end .  because of that and because i care about our federal system and because i care about our constitution and , yes , because i care not knowing her individually but because i care for her as a child of god , i believe that this legislation should not pass .  mr. speaker , i thank the gentleman for yielding me this time .  i want to speak from love and compassion , not just the law , and embrace the strongest pro-family position as we move in this debate .  the schiavo and schindler families need our prayers to do for terry what not a single one of us wishes to imagine , to make a decision on the life of a beloved as they traverse the jagged edge of being .  terri 's family , all of them , love her .  she is not alone .  but her being belongs not to us but to god and to them .  all of us are mere bystanders , the speaker , abc news , jeb bush , and every single one of us .  only terri 's family has walked the profound journey of accompaniment with her for the last 15 years , and it has been a long suffering one .  of one thing i am certain .  this decision on terri does not belong in this congress .  in fact , it does not even belong in the courts .  it lies with the family , those closest to her , even when that family is divided , bitter , exhausted , and unable to reconcile .  mr. speaker , 15 years ago or so i worked with colleagues in the senate on the difficult issues relating to the wishes of people who were going to receive medical care if they were incapacitated .  we required that state laws be told to patients about living wills and advance directives .  the florida judicial system has worked hard to follow its laws and to try to discern what was or would have been the wishes of mrs. schiavo .  section 1 of the bill says : `` the u.s. district court for the middle district of florida shall have jurisdiction to hear , determine and render judgment on a suit or claim by or on behalf of mrs. schiavo for the alleged violation of any of her rights under the constitution or federal laws. '' that court has already addressed that issue , it did so just a few days ago , and here is what it decided : `` the court finds there is not a substantial likelihood the petitioners will prevail on their federal constitutional claim. '' that is the same court to whom you are sending this case .  and the supreme court of our country denied review .  so essentially what you are doing now for one case is changing the federal rules , for one case , and saying there shall be a de novo hearing , disregarding everything that has happened through the state courts and federal courts until now .  in a word , what you are doing is allowing the rule of law of this country to be twisted in the winds .  it is a mistake .  mr. speaker , i want to thank the gentleman from massachusetts ( mr. frank )  for yielding me time .  mr. speaker , why are we here tonight ?  we have not been ordained or called by some all-powerful force to play god or play doctor .  every day american families make life-and-death decisions governed by their own faith and led by their own hearts .  this congress does not interfere with most personal decisions of these american citizens .  why then , mr. speaker , why have we come here tonight ?  where is the respect for individual responsibility that is waved like a banner in this chamber ?  where is the respect tonight for states ' rights that we said we hold so dear ?  if we really believe in those values , we will stay out of terri schiavo 's life today and let the decision of her husband and the ruling of the federal court stand .  leadership must lead .  tonight this leadership is a taillight .  it is not the headlight for democracy and for a citizen 's right to privacy that it should be .  this is demagoguery .  this is a step in where we have no business .  this is walking where the angels fear to tread .  we are playing with a young woman 's life for the sake of politics .  this is not about values .  this is not about religion .  it is pandering for political gain with the next election in mind .  mr. speaker , how much further can we slide down this slippery slope of hypocrisy ?  how much lower can we sink ?  how much more unprincipled can we be ?  in a democracy , sometimes we disagree with individual decisions .  sometimes it is hard to bear judgment that we do not understand .  but if we truly believe in individual freedom and the right to privacy , then we must get out of the way and let people be free .  this is a matter that should rest with the family , their consciences , and their god .  the florida courts have spoken , and we should not intervene .  this is a very , very sad night for the house of representatives .  mr. speaker , is it possible for us to let this young woman take her leave in peace ?  mr. speaker , this case , what we are doing here tonight , is not about terri schiavo .  the evidence for that begins in the way this was brought to this body , being brought in on st .  patrick 's day at 11 : 30 at night , with no hearings , no notice to the body , nothing .  it was going to be rammed through here without discussion .  and what troubles me , and i have heard my colleagues here , as a psychiatrist , i can not make diagnoses of people that i have not examined .  that is contrary to my profession , and i can be disciplined for doing that .  the rest of you can be doctors .  you can come out here and tell us anything you want .  but a doctor can not come out here and say anything really about somebody they have not examined .  so what you are now doing with this , and you want it both ways .  this is what troubles me about this .  on the one hand , you say this is not precedent .  this is only one case .  this is only one case .  what am i supposed to do as a physician like the gentleman from michigan ( mr. schwarz )  ?  as a psychiatrist , i dealt over and over and over again with family members facing this exact problem .  it is gut-wrenching .  you do not get any planning process here .  you do not get any , well , this is going to happen in a month , why do n't you get ready for it .  it happens and then you have got to make a decision .  and there you are as a family group .  everyone here is going to have this happen to them sometime .  when my father was 95 years old , he had had a couple of strokes .  on his first stroke , we talked to him .  he was 93 before we ever talked about a living will , okay ?  that is the way it is in america .  that is why we do not have terri 's words in a will .  you do not think about dying when you are young .  all right .  so my father has had a stroke .  we said to him , dad , what do you want us to do in terms of extending your life ?  he said , well , i do n't want any of those paddles that they use on er .  they can do artificial resuscitation , but i do n't want that paddle thing .  okay .  the doctor came to me and said to me , jim , the paddles are much more humane than doing artificial resuscitation .  if you press on an old man 's chest to try and start his heart from the external massage , you break the ribs .  then he has got pain from broken ribs .  actually , the paddle is much more humane .  so i went back to my father , and my brothers and i , we had a talk with him , and he said , well , i want it done the way it should be done .  then came the day when he had his third stroke and he could no longer swallow , and he was on ivs .  and so there were two brothers , a sister , and me and my mother , and we had to stand around and decide whether or not we were going to put in a stomach tube , a feeding tube .  anybody who stands out here and says that is not an extraordinary process is absolutely wrong .  it is no different than being on a ventilator , forcing air into someone 's lungs , than it is forcing food into them .  that is exactly what it is .  you are throwing all that up in the air and leaving families and doctors with nowhere to go because this is not setting precedent ; this is something to hide something else , some diversion of what is going on in this house .  mr. speaker , i support s. 686 , for the relief of the parents of theresa marie schiavo .  while i continue to support the right of individuals ( through living wills ) and families ( when no living will exists ) to make such difficult decisions , this case is unusual in two ways .  first , while most families are united in these judgments , this family is clearly divided .  second , terri schiavo is not unresponsive to those around her , as is typically the case when these decisions are made .  according to her mother , terri smiles , laughs , cries , and otherwise responds to the presence of her family and others .  s. 686 does not make medical decisions .  it merely allows terri schiavo 's family the right to have their case heard in federal court -- a right routinely accorded to death row inmates .  that right certainly should be accorded to a disabled person .  mr. speaker , i thank the gentleman from massachusetts for yielding me this time .  mr. speaker , the most traumatic moment of my life was when my mother died in my arms .  she had chosen not to be dependent on a respirator in a hospital but to die at home with her family .  these circumstances , or some variant of them , occur eventually within every family , and whether the federal government has the right to intervene in those private tragedies is the issue before us tonight .  i talked to terri schiavo 's brother today , and then finding what he said convincing , i read through all of mr. schiavo 's testimony and interviews .  and now i do not know who is right and who is wrong .  but that is the point .  neither do my colleagues .  but 10 courts have heard from all sides , from every relevant witness , and all of them , 19 judges , many of them conservative republicans , all have reached the same conclusion , that in fact terri schiavo 's husband 's wishes are consistent with his wife 's , that the feeding tube should be removed .  i have never met , certainly not examined , ms. schiavo ; but nor have any of the so-called medical experts in this body that have testified on the basis of edited videotapes ever examined her either .  but every qualified doctor who has examined her has reached the same conclusion : she is in a perpetual vegetative state ; she has no cerebral cortex .  the reason this issue is before us , i think , is that it is all about religion and politics .  but does not every religion teach , first of all , that no human being has the right to play god ?  and is not one of the very first principles of politics is that we should not use individual human tragedies , people suffering in anguish , political pawns to appease the interest groups that keep us in power .  mr. speaker , the night that this was brought up last week , we also voted on a budget resolution , and we decided to cut tens of billions of dollars out of the program that enables the poorest and the sickest and the most dependent among us throughout this country to be able to live in a dignified , safe and sanitary nursing home .  we decided to cut that money .  i did not agree with cutting that money from medicaid , but i do agree we have that right .  we have the right to cut taxes for the wealthy , while we cut health care for the poor .  but we have no legislative , constitutional authority to intervene in these very personal family matters , and most importantly , we have no moral right to be doing this tonight .  mr. speaker , i thank the gentleman for yielding me this time .  mr. speaker , this bill is a dangerously reckless way to deal with one of the most serious issues we will ever confront .  there is no way to make these judgments easy , even when the express desires of the patients are clear and unambiguous .  where there is disagreement on the medical facts or on the wishes of the patient , these cases can be heartrending and sometimes bitter , beyond the comprehension of those who have been fortunate not to have to make these decisions .  so what does this bill do ?  this bill would place a federal judge in the middle of this case after the state courts have adjudicated it , after doctors and family members and counsel and clergy and the courts in florida have struggled with it for years .  after everything is over , after all the facts have been established to the satisfaction of the courts , all the appeals exhausted , the writ of certiary denied by the supreme court of the united states , now we start all over again .  my colleagues wish to put one of those unelected federal judges they always denounce right in the middle of this and say the trial starts de novo .  ignore everything the florida courts have done .  this expresses contempt for the florida courts , contempt for the florida legislature .  nothing is to be considered res judicata .  no facts are to be considered established .  this is not establishing a federal appeal from the florida courts on the grounds that the florida courts have violated some constitutional rights we are familiar with ; those kinds of procedures .  no , this does not do that .  this simply says the florida courts are incompetent .  the florida legislature is incompetent .  the florida people are not to be trusted in electing their judges and their legislators .  instead , we are going to put this case , and only this case , in the federal courts from the very beginning and we instruct the federal courts to ignore the evidence in the florida courts ; to ignore the procedures in the florida courts ; to ignore the testimony in the florida courts and to start all over , because we have contempt , because we do not like the judgments of the florida courts .  we have never , ever done such a thing in the history of this country , and we should not start now .  the constitution of the united states says there should be no ex poste facto law because it is fundamentally unfair .  this is not ex poste facto , it is not a criminal court , but it is the same kind of legislation .  it is a bill of attainder , in effect .  there is a reason why the constitution prohibits bills of attainder and ex post fact laws , and although this is not technically an ex poste facto law or a bill of attainder , it violates all those reasons , and we should respect the spirit of the constitution of the united states .  mr. speaker , it is an uncontradicted fact , uncontradicted except for the speculations of some orators in this chamber , that terri schiavo told her husband , told her sister-in-law , told her brother-in-law , told various of her friends when attending funerals of close family members who had been on life support , that she would `` not want to live like that. '' the florida court found that to be the case , to be the fact .  the guardian ad litem appointed by the court , in his report to the court , found that .  this is not the case of a perhaps self-interested , conflict of interested husband testifying to that .  it is the case of the husband saying that she told him that , the friends , the brothers-in-law , the sisters-in-law .  they all said the same thing .  and the court found that , as a matter of fact , that is what terri schiavo said that was her wish .  the doctors ' testimony .  the doctors testified , doctors who examined her , not doctors standing up on the floor here who say , well , from the video tape we can infer .  doctors can be deprived of their license for making diagnoses from afar .  but doctors who have actually examined this patient have testified her cerebral cortex is liquefied ; that it is destroyed .  without a cerebral cortex there is no sensations , there is no consciousness , there is no feeling , there is no pain , there is no possibility of recovery .  that is what a persistent vegetative state is .  there is no possibility of recovery , despite the wishes , despite the fervent hopes , despite the illusions of desperate relatives .  we should not feed those illusions .  and what has happened to family values that we talk about here ?  this bill would invade the sanctity of the family , would invade the decision of the husband .  george will , a noted conservative comentator and philosopher , conservative enough so that he famously helped coach ronald reagan for his debates in the presidential debates in 1980 , said on television this morning , and i quote , `` unless we are prepared to overturn centuries of common law and more than two centuries of constitutional law that says that husband and wife are one , therefore clearly this is a decision to be made by the husband. '' now , this is not just a decision made by the husband .  this is a decision made by terri schiavo , according to the testimony of the husband and the brothers-in-law and the sisters-in-law .  this is a decision made by the husband and terri schiavo , according to all the testimony .  so we have no respect for the carefully established procedures our states have set up to wrestle with these difficult cases ; no respect for the elected representatives of the florida state legislature or their judges .  who are we to say they are wrong ?  who are we to say terri schiavo and her husband are wrong ?  who are we to say that terri schiavo 's husband is self-interested ?  and who are we to say this is any different from the thousands of cases of do-not-resuscitate orders that are given effect in our courts and in our hospitals every day , other than the fact that this case has gotten a lot of publicity and a lot of public official intervention ?  this is hypocrisy at its greatest , and we ought not to pass this bill .  mr. speaker , i did indeed say that there can be federal court review of due process , obviously .  that has happened here .  and the federal court said , `` not only has ms. schiavo 's case been given due process in state court , but few if any similar cases have ever been afforded this heightened level of process. '' the difference in this bill is not that it is a review of state court , but it orders a de novo proceeding to ignore everything that happened in state court as if the state courts did not exist .  that is unprecedented , that is contemptuous , that is different ; and that should not be done .  she got the appellate review already .  the appellate courts and federal court did not agree with the distinguished chairman .  that is not an indication for a new bill .  mr. speaker , a lot has been said about the details of this case .  i just want to say a word about the process , because we should honor and respect the rule of law , and laws should be applied equally to all .  this is a special bill , special treatment to just one case .  this bill does not grant a federal right of review to cases like this .  this bill applies just to this one case .  the majority in congress apparently has already decided the proper outcome of the case , a decision different from the next of kin and state court judges who have heard evidence from both sides .  present law has a process to ascertain whether or not a patient is in a persistent vegetative state , and it should not matter what politicians think .  there is a process .  but this case will be given special treatment because members of congress have made a different diagnosis .  present law also places the decisions in the hands of the next of kin , the husband .  but congress apparently does not agree with the next of kin ; and this bill , therefore , gives special legal standing to other relatives .  this is not the only recent example of special treatment .  a few years ago , a child custody case in the washington , d.c .  area was decided by special legislative language in a transportation appropriations bill .  the committee on education and the workforce considering a case on appeal between the department of labor and a bank retroactively changed the law to fix the result on behalf of the bank .  the house passed legislation to fix a result in firearms liability legislation so that the national rifle association got to try the issue in the legislative branch after they had made contributions to legislators who will decide the result , rather than being relegated to the impartial judge and jury where ordinary citizens have to try their cases .  mr. speaker , we should honor the rule of law and apply that law in all cases .  there are cases like this all over the country , but this bill applies only to this case because the relatives were able to get the attention of the united states congress .  if congress wants to establish a federal right of review in cases like this , a new rule of law , so be it ; but that law should apply to all whether or not they have a member of congress to introduce a special bill .  let us honor and respect the rule of law to be applied equally to all and reject this legislation .  mr. speaker , as one of 203 democrat and republican members of congress who voted in favor of s. 686 , a private bill for the relief of the parents of theresa marie schiavo , i am pleased that president bush signed this important piece of legislation that may result in the reinsertion of ms. schiavo 's feeding tube .  the bill empowers a federal court to examine the terri schiavo case .  as i listened to my colleagues debating this issue on the house floor last night , i heard many emotional statements from members on both sides of the aisle in support of and opposed to what this bill stands for .  this is not about democrats or republicans , it is simply about protecting the rights of disabled individuals .  unfortunately , after many years of dispute between ms. schiavo 's husband and parents , a florida state court ordered the removal of her feeding tubes and subsequent fate of death by starvation and dehydration .  due to the urgency of ms. schaivo 's case , this bill was limited in considering just her life .  however , there are many more people out there who also need help like this and i firmly believe that before we extinguish any life , we should allow that individual all legal and constitutional protections , so they can leave this world with dignity .  i feel so strongly about this that i was an original cosponsor of congressman dave weldon 's recently introduced bill , h.r. 1151 , that would have given legal representation to all incapacitated persons who are without written documentation as to their wishes and whose family is involved in a dispute as to the person 's wishes .  s. 686 , which we passed early this morning , allows ms. schiavo 's parents to bring the case before the federal court in florida and they would be able to hear all evidence without being prejudiced by any of the information from the florida state case that led to the feeding tubes being removed .  the bill also directs the federal courts to rule on whether removing ms. schiavo 's feeding tubes is a violation of her civil rights granted to her both by the constitution and federal laws .  i believe this bill is the right thing to do and i believe we should protect human life from its inception to a person 's last breath .  mr. speaker , our goal must be to honor the wishes of theresa schiavo regarding this difficult end-of-life decision .  we are a nation of laws .  that is what distinguishes our country from so many others .  in this case , the courts of the state of florida have thoroughly reviewed the facts of this case and weighed the evidence about what theresa schiavo would want .  they have concluded that theresa schiavo , through her words and deeds before her accident , would not want to be kept artificially alive in a persistent vegetative state .  the congress should not now substitute its judgment for that of theresa schiavo and the florida courts .  who are we to impose our own personal preferences in this case ?  we should not be playing doctor , judge , and jury .  mr. speaker , i just came in on the plane from north carolina , and i found myself thinking a lot about what we are doing here this evening .  wondering , first of all , what this vote is going to cost the american people , making a mental calculation that probably 4 , $ 5 million we are spending on this one vote this evening , and wondering how many children are going to go to bed hungry tonight and how many we could feed with that amount of money ; how many feeding tubes we have withdrawn by our own indifference in this body , by the decisions that we have made in this body that pit one group against another .  i found myself wondering where the compassion was last week when we tried to rally the members of this body behind the congressional black caucus ' agenda and budget and pointed out to them that 886 , 000 more people died over the last 10 years , african americans , because they did not get the same kind of quality of medical care that white americans got , just the difference in the qualities .  where was your compassion when we tried to get you to address that issue ?  the compassion comes out in this one case , but where is the compassion when we point out to you every single day that people are starving and dying and seeking justice and you will not hear it ?  how do we define compassion here ?  we have got to look at a bigger global picture , i think .  you can not just react to one person 's situation .  where is your compassion when we need you ?  mr. speaker , i yield myself such time as i may consume .  mr. speaker , for those of us from florida , the heart-wrenching case involving terri schiavo is not new .  in fact , for 15 years mrs. schiavo has remained in a persistent vegetative state .  for 7 years the courts and the state of florida have heard , ad nauseam , arguments of both sides .  there is this perception possibly that only one judge has been involved in this case .  in fact , 19 judges in the state of florida have participated in various legal proceedings regarding terri schiavo .  the state of florida , through our court system , has acted deliberatively , with justice and with due care .  the state of florida , through our judicial system , has taken testimony from everyone in the family and from everyone who knew mrs. schiavo that was capable of giving it .  the courts in florida have received expert testimony from many of the most prominent neurosurgeons and neurologists throughout the entire country .  the court system and the 19 judges in florida have been unanimous , unanimous , in stating that from the evidence provided by a standard of clear and convincing evidence , that it is mrs. schiavo 's wish that she not be required to continue in a persistent vegetative state .  so i would respectfully suggest for those of us that take exception to the proposed action by the chairman of the committee on the judiciary and by this congress that we stand in the shoes of terri schiavo .  we stand in her shoes , because what we are simply arguing is that the will of terri schiavo , as found by the legal system of florida , which is the law of the land as of now , that her will be respected and that her will be carried out .  with all due respect to the proposed remedy , in effect if this bill were to pass what this congress is designating is that the court system of florida will lose its long history of jurisdiction of this matter and others like it , and the jurisdiction of the federal court will be substituted .  the majority would argue that this is a principal position .  and while i would not dare suggest otherwise , i would ask the question , if the florida courts had found in favor of terri schiavo 's parents , would we be here this evening ?  i suspect not .  so it is fair to conclude , therefore , that the reason we are here this evening is that the majority is unhappy , objects to the decision rightfully reached by the courts of the state of florida ; and as a result , the majority wishes to undermine over 200 years of jurisprudence and a long history in this country for respect for our judicial independence as well as the states court systems and the jurisdictions assigned to it .  in closing , mr. speaker , i would simply suggest this one thing , this is heart-wrenching for all americans .  each american i believe tonight and today has been searching his or her soul wondering how they would react if , god forbid , they were in this position .  but the issue before this congress is not an emotional one .  it is simply one that respects the rule of law , the rule of law in the state of florida , the rule of law which has involved the participation of 19 judges , all unanimous in their view .  not a single medical piece of evidence has been provided by anybody who has diagnosed or in person witnessed mrs. schiavo that has said anything other than that she persists in an vegetative state .  and yet this congress seeks to replace and substitute our judgment , even though not a single one of us as far as i understand has ever diagnosed mrs. schiavo , nor do we have the medical expertise to do so ; and yet we are willing tonight to replace with our judgment the judgment of the most prominent doctors in our country and a court system which has labored extensively to yield a just result .  mr. speaker , i reserve the balance of my time .  mr. speaker , this is a profound tragedy for the schiavo family , and i sympathize with all of the family members .  it is also a deeply personal matter , one which should be decided within the family .  no one wants this personal decision to be made by 536 politicians : 435 members of the house , 100 members of the senate , and the president of the united states .  the facts of this tragedy , and the competing wishes of the family members , have already been determined by those best placed to do so .  those determinations have been repeatedly ratified over the past 7 years , by 19 judges in more than 10 trials , appeals or other proceedings .  none of those decisions have been reversed , until today .  in an unprecedented procedure , the united states house of representatives and the united states senate are voting to direct a federal court to relitigate this entire matter .  there are deeply personal and private issues that are discussed by every married couple .  these discussions occur in bedrooms across america .  also , intensely personal decisions are made in hospital and hospice rooms across this country .  by forcing this vote through congress , the republican leadership is demonstrating that no bedroom in america and no hospital room in this land is beyond the reach and power of this federal government .  this is wrong .  the republican leadership has transformed a profound tragedy for the schiavo family into a tragedy for the entire nation .  it is my hope that from this tragedy more people will understand the importance of determining their own futures and that of their family in the form of living wills .  mr. speaker , i thank the gentleman from massachusetts ( mr. frank )  for yielding me time .  there are a number of things that i would like to correct for the record before i begin .  i apologize for not knowing the state that the gentleman is from , but the representation regarding the care of theresa schiavo by her husband as represented in the chamber is totally inaccurate .  theresa 's husband , and i am quoting from the guardian ad litem report , the independent guardian ad litem report that was required by florida law during the special session in october of 2003 , it says : `` theresa 's husband , michael schiavo , and her mother , mary schindler , were virtually partners in their care of and dedication to theresa .  there is no question but that complete trust , mutual caring , explicit love , and a common goal of caring for and rehabilitating theresa were the shared intentions of and the gentleman referenced the percentage of the medical malpractice damage award being $ 486 , 000 going to attorneys ' fees and to helping her reach her demise .  that is also totally inaccurate .  also quoting from the guardian ad litem report : there was a medical malpractice case filed and pursued .  michael schiavo and terri schiavo were awarded $ 750 , 000 in economic damages .  the economic damages were put into a trust that was meticulously cared for according to the guardian ad litem and which was managed by south trust bank as the guardian and independent trustee .  this fund was accounted for and michael schiavo had absolutely no control over its use .  michael schiavo was awarded $ 300 , 000 for loss of consortium damages .  that is money that was awarded to him .  there is not very much of that left .  and there is no truth to the accusation that he would benefit financially from that damage award and there certainly was not $ 2 million in damages awarded .  mr. speaker , i submit for the record the report of the guardian ad litem .  a report to governor jeb bush and the 6th judicial circuit in the matter of theresa marie schiavo theresa marie schiavo was born in the philadelphia , pennsylvania area on 3 december 1963 to robert and mary schindler .  she has two younger siblings , robert jr. , and susan .  through the age of 18 , theresa was , according to her parents , very overweight , until she chose to lose weight with the guidance of a physician .  she dropped from 250 pounds to around 150 pounds , at which time she met michael schiavo .  they dated for many months and married in november of 1984 .  the schiavo and schindler families were close and friendly .  theresa and michael moved to florida in 1986 and were followed shortly thereafter by theresa 's parents and siblings .  theresa worked for the prudential life insurance company and michael was a restaurant manager .  about three years later , without the apparent knowledge of her parents , theresa and michael sought assistance in becoming pregnant through an obstetrician who specialized in fertility services .  for over a year , theresa and michael received fertility services and counseling in order to enhance their strongly held desire to have a child .  by this time , theresa 's weight had dropped even further , to 110 pounds .  she was very proud of her fabulous figure and her stunning appearance , wearing bikini bathing suits for the first time and taking great pride in her improved good looks .  testimony and photographs bare witness to these facts .  on the tragic early morning of 25 february 1990 , theresa collapsed in the hallway of her apartment , waking michael , who called theresa 's family and 911 .  the lives of theresa , michael and the schindlers were to change forever .  theresa suffered a cardiac arrest .  during the several minutes it took for paramedics to arrive , theresa experienced loss of oxygen to the brain , or anoxia , for a period sufficiently long to cause permanent loss of brain function .  despite heroic efforts to resuscitate , theresa remained unconscious and slipped into a coma .  she was intubated , ventilated and trached , meaning that she was given life saving medical technological interventions , without which she surely would have died that day .  the cause of the cardiac arrest was adduced to a dramatically reduced potassium level in theresa 's body .  sodium and potassium maintain a vital , chemical balance in the human body that helps define the electrolyte levels .  the cause of the imbalance was not clearly identified , but may be linked , in theory , to her drinking 10-15 glasses of iced tea each day .  while no formal proof emerged , the medical records note that the combination of aggressive weight loss , diet control and excessive hydration raised questions about theresa suffering from bulimia , an eating disorder , more common among women than men , in which purging through vomiting , laxatives and other methods of diet control becomes obsessive .  theresa spent two and a half months as an inpatient at humana northside hospital , eventually emerging from her coma state , but not recovering consciousness .  on 12 may 1990 , following extensive testing , therapy and observation , she was discharged to the college park skilled care and rehabilitation facility .  forty-nine days later , she was transferred again to bayfront hospital for additional , aggressive rehabilitation efforts .  in september of 1990 , she was brought home , but following only three weeks , she was returned to the college park facility because the `` family was overwhelmed by terry 's care needs. '' on 18 june 1990 , michael was formally appointed by the court to serve as theresa 's legal guardian , because she was adjudicated to be incompetent by law .  michael 's appointment was undisputed by the parties .  the clinical records within the massive case file indicate that theresa was not responsive to neurological and swallowing tests .  she received regular and intense physical , occupational and speech therapies .  theresa 's husband , michael schiavo and her mother , mary schindler , were virtual partners in their care of and dedication to theresa .  there is no question but that complete trust , mutual caring , explicit love and a common goal of caring for and rehabilitating theresa , were the shared intentions of michael schiavo and the schindlers .  in late autumn of 1990 , following months of therapy and testing , formal diagnoses of persistent vegetative state with no evidence of improvement , michael took theresa to california , where she received an experimental thalamic stimulator implant in her brain .  michael remained in california caring for theresa during a period of several months and returned to florida with her in january of 1991 .  theresa was transferred to the mediplex rehabilitation center in brandon , where she received 24-hour skilled care , physical , occupational , speech and recreational therapies .  despite aggressive therapies , physician and other clinical assessments consistently revealed no functional abilities , only reflexive , rather than cognitive movements , random eye opening , no communication system and little change cognitively or functionally .  on 19 july 1991 theresa was transferred to the sable palms skilled care facility .  periodic neurological exams , regular and aggressive physical , occupational and speech therapy continued through 1994 .  michael schiavo , on theresa 's and his own behalf , initiated a medical malpractice lawsuit against the obstetrician who had been overseeing theresa 's fertility therapy .  in 1993 , the malpractice action concluded in theresa and michael 's favor , resulting in a two element award : more than $ 750 , 000 in economic damages for theresa , and a loss of consortium award ( non economic damages ) of $ 300 , 000 to michael .  the court established a trust fund for theresa 's financial award , with south trust bank as the guardian and an independent trustee .  this fund was meticulously managed and accounted for and michael schiavo had no control over its use .  there is no evidence in the record of the trust administration documents of any mismanagement of theresa 's estate , and the records on this matter are excellently maintained .  after the malpractice case judgment , evidence of disaffection between the schindlers and michael schiavo openly emerged for the first time .  the schindlers petitioned the court to remove michael as guardian .  they made allegations that he was not caring for theresa , and that his behavior was disruptive to theresa 's treatment and condition .  proceedings concluded that there was no basis for the removal of michael as guardian further , it was determined that he had been very aggressive and attentive in his care of theresa .  his demanding concern for her well being and meticulous care by the nursing home earned him the characterization by the administrator as `` a nursing home administrator 's nightmare '' .  it is notable that through more than thirteen years after theresa 's collapse , she has never had a bedsore .  by 1994 , michael 's attitude and perspective about theresa 's condition changed .  during the previous four years , he had insistently held to the premise that theresa could recover and the evidence is incontrovertible that he gave his heart and soul to her treatment and care .  this was in the face of consistent medical reports indicating that there was little or no likelihood for her improvement .  in early 1994 theresa contracted a urinary tract infection and michael , in consultation with theresa 's treating physician , elected not to treat the infection and simultaneously imposed a `` do not resuscitate '' order should theresa experience cardiac arrest .  when the nursing facility initiated an intervention to challenge this decision , michael canceled the orders .  following the incident involving the infection , theresa was transferred to another skilled nursing facility .  michael 's decision not to treat was based upon discussions and consultation with theresa 's doctor , and was predicated on his reasoned belief that there was no longer any hope for theresa 's recovery .  it had taken michael more than three years to accommodate this reality and he was beginning to accept the idea of allowing theresa to die naturally rather than remain in the non-cognitive , vegetative state .  it took michael a long time to consider the prospect of getting on with his life -- something he was actively encouraged to do by the schindlers , long before enmity tore them apart .  he was even encouraged by the schindlers to date , and introduced his in-law family to women he was dating .  but this was just prior to the malpractice case ending .  as part of the first challenge to michael 's guardianship , the court appointed john h. pecarek as guardian ad litem to determine if there had been any abuse by michael schiavo .  his report , issued 1 march 1994 , found no inappropriate actions and indicated that michael had been very attentive to theresa .  after two more years of legal contention , the schindlers action against michael was dismissed with prejudice .  efforts to remove michael as guardian were attempted in subsequent years , without success .  hostilities increased and the schindlers and michael schiavo did not communicate directly .  by june of 1996 , the court had to order that copies of medical reports be shared with the schindlers and that all health care providers be permitted to discuss theresa 's condition with the schindlers -- something michael had temporarily precluded .  in 1997 , six years after theresa 's tragic collapse , michael elected to initiate an action to withdraw artificial life support from theresa .  more than a year later , in may of 1998 , the first petition to discontinue life support was entered .  the court appointed richard pearse , esq. , to serve as guardian ad litem to review the request for withdrawal , a standard procedure .  mr. pearse 's report , submitted to the court on 20 december 1998 contains what appear to be objective and challenging findings .  his review of the clinical record confirmed that theresa 's condition was that of a diagnosed persistent vegetative state with no chance of improvement .  mr. pearse 's investigation concluded that the statements of mrs. schindler , theresa 's mother , indicated that theresa displayed special responses , mostly to her , but that these were not observed or documented .  mr. pearse documents the evolving disaffections between the schindlers and michael schiavo .  he concludes that michael schiavo 's testimony regarding the basis for his decision to withdraw life support -- a conversation he had with his wife , theresa , was not clear and convincing , and that potential conflicts of interest regarding the disposition of residual funds in theresa 's trust account following her death affected michael and the schindlers -- but he placed greater emphasis on the impact it might have had on michael 's decision to discontinue artificial life support .  at the time of mr. pearse 's report , more than $ 700 , 000 remained in the guardianship estate .  mr. pearse concludes that michael 's hearsay testimony about theresa 's intent is `` necessarily adversely affected by the obvious financial benefit to him of being the sole heir at law ... .. '' and `` ... ..  by the chronology of this case ... .. '' , specifically referencing michael 's change in position relative to maintaining theresa following the malpractice award .  mr. pearse recommended that the petition for removal of the feeding tube be denied , or in the alternative , if the court found the evidence to be clear and convincing , the feeding tube should be withdrawn .  mr. pearse also recommended that a guardian ad litem continue to serve in all subsequent proceedings .  in response to mr. pearse 's report , michael schiavo filed a suggestion of bias against mr. pearse .  this document notes that mr. pearse failed to mention in his report that michael schiavo had earlier , formally offered to divest himself entirely of his financial interest in the guardianship estate .  the criticism continues to note that mr. pearse 's concern about abuse of inheritance potential was directly solely at michael , not at the schindlers in the event they might become the heirs and also choose to terminate artificial the suggestion of bias challenges premises and findings of mr. pearse , establishing a well pleaded case for bias .  in february of 1999 , mr. pearse tendered his petition for additional authority or discharge .  he was discharged in june of 1999 and no new guardian ad litem was named .  actions by the schindlers to remove michael as guardian and to block the petition to remove artificial life support took on a frenetic quality at this juncture .  more external parties on both sides made appearances as potential interveners .  on 11 february 2000 , consequent to hearings and the presentation of competent evidence , judge greer ordered the removal of theresa 's artificial life support .  the schindlers aggressively sought means by which to stop the removal of theresa 's feeding tube .  most of the motions in these efforts were denied , but not without apparent careful and detailed review by the court , often involving hearings at which considerable latitude was afforded the schindlers in their efforts to proffer testimony and admit evidence .  the motion and hearing process continued through 2000 .  then the schindlers sought to introduce new evidence that was believed to be of a sufficiently substantial nature as to change the court 's decision regarding the removal of the feeding tube .  the hearings and testimony before the trial court leading to the decision to discontinue artificial life support included admitted hearsay from theresa 's brother-in-law ( michael schiavo 's brother ) and his wife ( michael schiavo 's sister-in-law ) along with testimony from michael .  the testimony of these parties referenced specific conversations in which theresa commented about her desire never to be placed on artificial life support .  the testimony reflected conversations at or proximate to funerals of close family members who had been on artificial life support .  the context and content of the testimony , while hearsay , was deemed credible and consistent and was used by the court as a supporting basis for its decision to discontinue artificial life support .  the schindlers ' new evidence ostensibly reflected adversely on michael schiavo 's role as guardian .  it related to his personal romantic life , the fact that he had relationships with other women , that he had allegedly failed to provide appropriate care and treatment for theresa , that he was wasting the assets within the guardianship account , and that he was no longer competent to represent theresa 's best interests .  testimony provided by members of the schindler family included very personal statements about their desire and intention to ensure that theresa remain alive .  throughout the course of the litigation , deposition and trial testimony by members of the schindler family voiced the disturbing belief that they would keep theresa alive at any and all costs .  nearly gruesome examples were given , eliciting agreement by family members that in the event theresa should contract diabetes and subsequent gangrene in each of her limbs , they would agree to amputate each limb , and would then , were she to be diagnosed with heart disease , perform open heart surgery .  there was additional , difficult testimony that appeared to establish that despite the sad and undesirable condition of theresa , the parents still derived joy from having her alive , even if theresa might not be at all aware of her environment the court denied the schindlers ' motions to remove the guardian , allowing that the evidence was not sufficient and in some instances , not relevant .  it set a date for the artificial life support to be discontinued , as of 24 april 2001 .  the decision was appealed to the florida 2nd district court of appeals ( dca ) , and was affirmed in january 2001 .  the requested appeal to the florida supreme court was denied on 23 april 2001 , one day before the scheduled removal of theresa 's feeding tube .  on 24 april 2001 , theresa schiavo 's artificial feeding tube was clamped , and she ceased receiving nutrition and hydration .  under normal circumstances , theresa would die naturally within a week to ten days .  two days after the clamping of theresa 's feeding tube , the schindlers filed a civil action in their capacity as `` natural guardians '' for theresa .  the trial court , in emergency review , granted a temporary injunction and the tube was unclamped .  michael schiavo filed an emergency motion to vacate the injunction .  this led to the second review and appeal to the 2nd dca .  the 2nd dca found that the intention of florida statute 765 with respect to matters such as theresa 's , is to help expedite proceedings of the court when decisions have been made by the bona fide guardian .  the 2nd dca also noted that the court had acted independently as proxy decision maker regarding the removal of artificial life support .  in october 2001 , the 2nd dca concluded that the schindlers `` have presented no credible evidence suggesting new treatment can restore mrs. schiavo. '' the injunction was lifted and plans moved forward to discontinue artificial nutrition .  fresh and exhaustive motions regarding new evidence were again crafted and proffered to the trial court by the schindlers resulting in a lengthy hearing .  affidavits from medical doctors and others alleged that theresa 's condition could be improved .  in particular , the sworn statement of a single , osteopathic physician , dr .  webber , claimed that he could improve theresa 's condition and had done so in like and similar cases .  the quality of evidence in this affidavit was marginal , but the court allowed it to create a colorable entitlement to additional medical review .  the case was remanded to the trial court with the charge that each side would select two expert physicians ( a neurologist or a neurosurgeon , according to the court ) and agree between them regarding a fifth , and if they could not agree on the fifth , the court would select it .  by may of 2002 , the physicians were selected by both sides , but no agreement could be reached about a fifth , so the court selected one .  curiously and surprisingly , dr .  webber , who had served as the basis for this entire process at the 2nd dca , did not participate in the exams or the procedure .  each of the physicians was afforded access to theresa for the purpose of conducting a thorough examination .  video tape recordings were made of some of the examinations along with segments in which family members interacted with theresa .  the physicians were deposed and proffered testimony regarding their findings .  written reports of the examinations were prepared by all five physicians , and a very detailed hearing was held in october of 2002 .  the clinical evidence presented by the five physicians reflected their examinations and reviews of the medical records .  four of the physicians were board certified in neurology , as suggested by the court , and one physician was board certified in radiology and hyperbaric medicine .  all of the physicians had excellent pedigrees of medical training .  the scientific quality , value and relevance of the testimony varied .  the two neurologists testifying for michael schiavo provided strong , academically based , and scientifically supported evidence that was reasonably deemed clear and convincing by the court .  of the two physicians testifying for the schindlers , only one was a neurologist , the other was a radiologist/hyperbaric physician .  the testimony of the schindler 's physicians was substantially anecdotal , and was reasonably deemed to be not clear and convincing .  the fifth physician , chosen by the court because the two parties could not agree , presented scientifically grounded , academically based evidence that was reasonably deemed to be clear and convincing by the court .  following exhaustive testimony and the viewing of video tapes , the trial court concluded that no substantial evidence had been presented to indicate any promising treatment that might improve theresa 's cognition .  the court sought to glean scientific , case , researchbased foundations for the contentions of the schindler 's physician experts , but received principally anecdotal information .  evidence presented by michael schiavo 's two physicians and the fifth physician selected by the court was reasonably deemed clear and convincing in support of theresa being in a persistent vegetative state with no hope for improvement .  simultaneous appeals of this decision and renewed actions to remove michael schiavo as guardian were initiated based upon new evidence .  the june 2003 appeal to the 2nd dca was schiavo iv .  the 2nd dca panel of judges engaged in what approximated a de novo review of all of the facts , testimony and video tapes presented at trial .  the appellate court affirmed the trial court 's ruling and its conclusions , and in addition , ordered the trial court to set a hearing date for removal of the artificial life support .  the trial court set 15 october 2003 as the date for the removal of theresa 's artificial nutrition tube .  the schindler 's renewed efforts to remove michael schiavo as guardian , and to disqualify judges , were not successful .  multiple amicus briefs and affidavits from parties supporting the schindlers were submitted through the schindler 's actions and in some instances , independently to the court .  by mid 2003 , the landscape and texture of theresa schiavo 's case underwent profound changes .  national media coverage , active involvement by groups advocating right to life , and the attention of the governor 's office and the florida legislature , catapulted theresa 's case into a different dimension .  the schindlers , acting on behalf of theresa , filed a motion in federal district court seeking a preliminary injunction to stay the removal of the artificial life support from theresa , scheduled to occur on 15 october 2003 .  on 6 october 2003 , florida governor jeb bush filed an amicus brief in support of the motion for a preliminary injunction .  the brief argues that removal of artificial nutrition , resulting in death , should be avoided if that person can take oral nutrition and hydration .  the governor predicates his memorandum on the pivotal question as to whether theresa could ingest food and water on her own .  that theresa is in a diagnosed , persistent vegetative state is explicitly recognized .  on 15 october 2003 , theresa maria schiavo 's artificial feeding tube was disconnected , for the second time .  the florida legislature , in special session , passed hb 35 e on 21 october 2003 , authorizing the governor to stay the disconnection of the artificial feeding tube and required , among other things , the appointment of a guardian ad litem to produce this report .  on that same day , 21 october 2003 , the artificial feeding tube was re-inserted per the stay ordered by governor bush .  other suits and actions were initiated immediately the governor became a named party in the matters involving theresa schiavo .  i just wanted to correct some of those facts for the record , mr. speaker .  the circumstances that bring us here today are horribly tragic .  no matter where you may fall on this issue , the details of terri 's case are heart-wrenching .  no one in this chamber questions the pain , heartache , and personal struggles that every member of ms. schiavo 's family has had to deal with over the last 15 years .  but heartbreaking decisions like this are deeply intimate , personal , and private matters ; and the federal government and this body , in particular , should not inject itself into the middle of this private family matter .  this very personal matter should not be politicized as it is being here today .  just a few hours ago , i had an opportunity to sit down with ms. schiavo 's brother , bobby schindler .  i know that he speaks with great sincerity as i told him about his sister .  indeed , it is important to emphasize that this type of gut-wrenching , angst-ridden decision happens every day across the country among families dealing with the tragic circumstances of a loved one .  and i know the pain that this causes families only too well because it happened in my own family not even 5 weeks ago .  my husband 's family had to make the identical decision to withdraw sustenance to disconnect the feeding tube of my husband 's aunt .  her children came together to make that very difficult decision , and no one in my family felt it was essential that i or any other member of congress file legislation to stop it .  this type of decision happens every single day to thousands of families across america .  where will we stop if we allow this to go forward ?  today will be terri schiavo .  tomorrow it will be someone 's brother or a constituent 's uncle or next week a family member , god forbid , of one of my colleagues or another constituent .  do we really want to set the precedent of this great body , the united states congress , to insert ourselves in the middle of families ' private matters all across america ?  if we do this , we will end up throwing end-of-life decisions into utter and complete chaos ; and we can not and should not do that .  we are members of congress .  we are not doctors .  we are not medical experts .  we are not bio-ethicists .  we are members of congress .  when i ran for congress , i did not ask my constituents for the right to insert myself in their private , personal families decisions ; and they do not want me to make those for them .  they do not want you to make those for them either .  that is the bottom line .  i can not get into the kind of questions that we are getting into being asked here because we do not know .  i have never met michael schiavo or terri schiavo or the schindlers and the vast majority of people in this body have not either .  we do not have the expertise or the facts in enough detail to get into these kinds of decisions and make decisions on these kind of cases .  we are not god and we are not terri schiavo 's husband , sister , brother , uncle or relation .  we are members of congress .  we make laws and we uphold the law and we swore to uphold and protect the constitution and we are thumbing our noses at the constitution if we do this here tonight .  now , i have heard a lot of things said about this legislation and about the very proceeding that we are engaging in this evening .  i have heard accusations that because this body is debating this legislation , we are threatening somehow the life of ms. schiavo .  i think it is really important to note that this is a legislative body created by our forefathers for the express purpose of deliberations and representation .  the accusation that because we have 3 hours of debate on an unprecedented piece of legislation that seeks to insert the federal government in between a family while overruling state courts and circumventing the constitution , that is an outrageous accusation and not worthy of a representative elected to craft and debate legislation .  i notice today that president bush has returned from crawford hoping to sign this legislation if it is passed by congress .  i think it is important to note that president bush when he was governor of texas in 1999 signed a texas law that is on the books today that was just used a few days ago to allow a hospital to withdraw , over the parents ' objections , the life support of a 6-month-old boy , over the parents ' objections .  president bush signed a law called the texas advanced directives act , when he was governor of texas .  this law , that has been used several times and as recently as a few days ago , liberalized the situations under which a person in texas can avoid artificial life support .  under it , life support can be withheld or withdrawn if you have an irreversible condition in texas from which you are expected to eventually pass away .  indeed , this law , signed by then governor bush , allows doctors to remove a patient from life support if the hospital 's ethics committee agrees , even over the objections of a family member , only allowing the family 10 days to find another facility that might accept the patient , barring any state judicial intervention .  it appears that president bush felt , as governor , that there was a point at which , when doctors felt there was no further hope for the patient , that it is appropriate for an end-of-life decision to be made , even over the objections of family members .  that was a law that president bush did not just allow to become law without his signature , he came back from a campaign trip to sign it .  there is an obvious conflict here between the president 's feelings on this matter now as compared to when he was governor of texas , so i thought that was an important conflict that should be raised here this evening in our discussion .  let me just close my remarks by reiterating there is no room for the federal government in this most personal of private angst-ridden family matters , in which a family has to make the most personal of decisions when dealing with the course of care of a loved one .  we should not politicize this very personal family matter .  ms. schiavo made it clear , as opposed to what the gentleman from wisconsin said , that she would not have wished to remain in a persistent vegetative state , and the guardian ad litem report well documents that .  in fact , it documents it to such a degree that it cites the specific conversations referenced by her family members when she attended funerals of loved ones who were in similar situations when they had life support removed ; and she had stated that if , god forbid , she was ever in this situation , that she would not have wished to remain on life support .  the court heard that testimony not from terri schiavo 's husband , not from her parents , but from other family members and friends who heard her say these things .  they said that there was enough evidence to render the belief that she had made those statements .  she made it clear that she wished not to remain in a persistent vegetative state , which she is in today .  and this u.s. government should not step in to circumvent the wishes of one dying woman .  mr. speaker , our colleagues have spent this evening reiterating factually inaccurate information , and i want to make sure we clear it up .  the independent guardian ad litem appointed to represent terri schiavo has said in his report that , despite the facts cited by my colleagues on the other side of the aisle who have said that terri felt pain and laughs and cries , that that is factually inaccurate ; that her cerebral cortex has been liquefied , and that is the area of the brain that responds to emotion and reason .  so that is impossible what they have detailed here tonight .  additionally , they talk about six neurologists and eight physicians that have said that she is not in a persistent vegetative state .  also factually inaccurate .  those physicians to which they refer have only viewed terri via videotape .  the five court-appointed physicians that have examined terri , two appointed on michael schiavo 's side , two on the schindlers ' side , and one court-appointed physician , who have all examined her , the board certified neurologists who had scientifically-based academically-researched testimony , their testimony was deemed to be clear and convincing by the court that she was and is in a persistent vegetative state .  the other physicians ' testimony was discounted as anecdotal only .  in addition to that , i want to just close with the commentary from the guardian ad litem .  he spent 20 of 30 days with her .  he put his face up close to hers and tried to make eye contact , pleading desperately , trying to will her into giving him any kind of sign .  he said , i would beg her , please , terri , help me .  you want to believe there is some connection .  you hope she is going to sit up in bed and say , `` hey , i 'm really here , but do n't tell anybody. '' or , `` i 'm really here , tell everybody. '' but schiavo never made eye contact .  when wolfson visited her when her parents were there , she never made eye contact with them either , he said .  and for all of wolfson 's pleadings and coaxings , he never got what he most wanted : a sign .  he said , i felt like there was something distinctive about whoever terri is , but i was not clear it was there , inside the vessel .  during those 30 days , wolfson was plagued by nightmares .  he concluded that the medical and legal evidence behind schiavo 's diagnosis of being in a persistent vegetative state was credible , but he still felt that for all their expertise , those medical experts would never truly know where schiavo was .  he was dismayed to learn friday that barbara weller , an attorney for the schindlers , claimed schiavo tried to speak .  he said , terri does not speak .  to claim otherwise reduces her to a fiction . '' mr. speaker , i have served as the senior pastor of st .  james united methodist church for 30 years , for 30 years .  and over those 30 years , i have had countless men and women who have come to me in situations of decisions that had to be made regarding family members ; and in the privacy of a home or in a waiting room , we have dealt with those decisions .  tonight , i want to talk about the shame of this debate .  the shame of this debate is that in spite of the fact that we are a great legislative body , we are a body that determines peace and war , but we are not a hallowed body .  and the fact that we are engaged in this debate is proof positive of the fact that we are a fractured body .  and what we need to also understand is that we live in a world of echoes , a world of echoes .  and a thoughtless word falling from the lips of members here can travel around this country and do even more damage to the divisions that we have in this nation .  we are doing that .  we have even used the inflammatory word `` kill. '' we were doing damage to this country , and it is shameful that we would do this .  mr. speaker , the gentleman made a statement , if i understand correctly , that passage of this proposal before us today would translate into a savings of $ 400 for each family in america .  if the gentleman will yield further , the $ 400 would actually go back to the american family ?  is that what the chairman is suggesting ?  mr. speaker , i rise to oppose this legislation .  after 4 years of record deficits and $ 2 trillion in new debt , one would think that the republican majority would have a better understanding of what bankruptcy is .  they are lucky this law does not apply to their actions in the last 4 years .  instead , we have a bill that promotes one bankruptcy code for the wealthy and another for the middle class .  case in point : the bill preserves the `` millionaires loophole , '' used by the wealthy to hide up to $ 1 million from creditors and courts into offshore accounts known as asset protection .  everyone should be subject to the same law and the same standards , not one set of rules for the wealthy and one for middle-class families .  if one can afford a high-priced lawyer to set up an asset protection trust , they are a lot better off in bankruptcy than a middle-class family struggling to pay off large hospital bills .  more than half of all bankruptcies result from catastrophic medical bills .  mr. speaker , rather than deal with the health care crisis or making college affordable , this legislation protects wealthy deadbeats from the same standard imposed upon every middle-class american .  we should have one rule , one standard in the law of bankruptcy law that applies to every american regardless of income and regardless of wealth or position .  mr. speaker , i thank the gentleman from georgia ( mr. gingrey )  for yielding me the time .  parliamentary inquiry , mr. speaker .  what was the objection about ?  mr. speaker , further parliamentary inquiry , what is the ruling of the chair ?  further parliamentary inquiry , so the gentlewoman from new york 's request to put in the record the material ?  mr. speaker , there is objection to a member 's placing in the record , a member who had made a statement supporting the things that she asked to be submitted , that is being denied ?  mr. speaker , with the speaker 's permission , i ask unanimous consent that the extraneous material offered by the gentlewoman from new york ( mrs. maloney )  be made a part of the record following her remarks .  mr. speaker , i take this time for the purpose of inquiring about the schedule for the coming week .  mr. speaker , i thank the gentleman for his information .  i would ask the majority leader if he knows which days we will be considering bankruptcy and which day we will be considering the estate tax bill ?  reclaiming my time , in any event , both bills will be on the calendar next week ?  mr. speaker , with respect to the budget resolution which we have passed , i know the senate has appointed conferees , but we have not yet appointed conferees .  does the leader know when we might appoint conferees for the budget conference ?  i would ask the majority leader , he is confident that we will have a conference ?  one additional question .  i presume the gentleman from south carolina ( mr. spratt )  will be invited to the conference at some point in time , along with others ?  mr. speaker , i thank the gentleman for that assurance .  as the gentleman knows , we have had some problems , at least from our perspective , in being included in the conferences from time to time .  that is an important one .  our citizens are confronting , as my colleague knows , very high gas prices , $ 2.20 , $ 2.30 , $ 2.50 in some areas of the country .  i understand that the committees of jurisdiction are expected to be marking up next week or are in the process of marking up the energy bill .  can the gentleman tell me when that bill might be on the floor ?  mr. speaker , i thank the gentleman for that information .  i thank the gentleman for yielding me this time and for his leadership .  mr. speaker , i rise in opposition to this rule and to this morally bankrupt bill that puts corporate greed over fairness for ordinary folks .  this bill takes the phrase `` kick them when they are down '' to a whole new level .  what about the fact that half of the people who file for bankruptcy protection are forced to do so because of high medical costs , loss of a job , or scam loan sharks ?  this bill would say to these people , the answer is , of course , too bad .  make no mistake , mr. speaker , this bill is a big-time corporate payoff that was drafted with one overriding goal in mind , that is , profits , profits , profits .  i am all for curbing abuses in bankruptcy and would suggest that we start by closing bankruptcy loopholes for millionaires and taking steps to address predatory lending and payday loans rather than a one-sided , harsh industry payoff .  this bill should include real solutions to address the really hard problems fueling the financial difficulties so many in this nation are facing .  we should focus on the true abusers and not the working families that have played by the rules .  mr. speaker , we need to have a bankruptcy bill that addresses the real abusers .  this is a morally bankrupt bill .  mr. speaker , i request permission to place in the record , in response to this statement , statements by bar associations across this country , women 's organizations , women 's legal defense , asserting what i have said that children are put second to credit card companies .  the material referred to is as follows : national women 's law center , washington , dc , march 14 , 2005 .  dear congressman conyers : the national women 's law center is writing to urge you to oppose h.r. 685 , a bankruptcy bill that is harsh on economically vulnerable women and their families , but that fails to address serious abuses of the bankruptcy system by perpetrators of violence against patients and health care professionals at women 's health care clinics .  this bill would inflict additional hardship on over one million economically vulnerable women and families who are affected by the bankruptcy system each year : those forced into bankruptcy because of job loss , medical emergency , or family breakup -- factors which account for nine out of ten filings -- and women who are owed child or spousal support by men who file for bankruptcy .  contrary to the claims of some proponents of the bill , low- and moderate-income filers -- who are disproportionately women -- are not protected from most of its harsh provisions , and mothers owed child or spousal support are not protected from increased competition from credit card companies and other commercial creditors during and after bankruptcy that will make it harder for them to collect support .  the bill would make it more difficult for women facing financial crises to regain their economic stability through the bankruptcy process .  h.r. 685 would make it harder for women to access the bankruptcy system , because the means test requires additional paperwork of even the poorest filers ; harder for women to save their homes , cars , and essential household items through the bankruptcy process ; and harder for women to meet their children 's needs after bankruptcy because many more debts would survive .  the bill also would put women owed child or spousal support who are bankruptcy creditors at a disadvantage .  by increasing the rights of many other creditors , including credit card companies , finance companies , auto lenders and others , the bill would set up an intensified competition for scarce resources between mothers and children owed support and these commercial creditors during and after bankruptcy .  the domestic support provisions in the bill may have been intended to protect the interests of mothers and children ; unfortunately , they fail to do so .  moving child support to first priority among unsecured creditors in chapter 7 sounds good , but is virtually meaningless ; even today , with no means test limiting access to chapter 7 , fewer than four percent of chapter 7 debtors have anything to distribute to unsecured creditors .  in chapter 13 , the bill would require that larger payments be made to many commercial creditors ; as a result , payments of past-due child support would have to be made in smaller amounts and over a longer period of time , increasing the risk that child support debts will not be paid in full .  and , when the bankruptcy process is over , women and children owed support would face increased competition from commercial creditors .  under current law , child and spousal support are among the few debts that survive bankruptcy ; under this bill , many at the same time , the bill fails to address real abuses of the bankruptcy system .  perpetrators of violence against patients and health care professionals at women 's health clinics have engaged in concerted efforts to use the bankruptcy system to evade responsibility for their illegal actions .  this bill does nothing to curb this abuse .  the bill is profoundly unfair and unbalanced .  unless there are major changes to h.r. 685 , we urge you to oppose it .  very truly yours , & lt ; center & gt ; nancy duff campbell , & lt ; /center & gt ; & lt ; center & gt ; & lt ; em & gt ; co-president. & lt ; /em & gt ; & lt ; center & gt ; marcia greenberger , & lt ; /center & gt ; & lt ; center & gt ; & lt ; em & gt ; co-president. & lt ; /em & gt ; & lt ; center & gt ; joan entmacher , & lt ; /center & gt ; & lt ; center & gt ; & lt ; em & gt ; vice president and director , family economic security .  & lt ; /em & gt ; legal momentum , washington , dc , february 28 , 2005 .  dear senator : legal momentum is writing to you today to urge you to oppose s. 256 , the bankruptcy abuse prevention and consumer protection act of 2005 .  legal momentum is a leading national not-for-profit civil rights organization with a long history of advocating for women 's rights and promoting gender equality .  among our major goals is securing economic justice for all .  in this regard we have worked to end poverty ; improve welfare reform ; create affordable , quality childcare and guarantee workplace protections for survivors of domestic violence .  the bankruptcy system is another crucial safety net for women , and legal momentum is concerned that the changes to the bankruptcy system proposed in s. 256 would be harmful to the economic security of women and families .  in addition , the legislation fails to hold perpetrators of violence against workers and patients of women 's health care clinics accountable for their actions .  the large majority of women who file for bankruptcy do so because of unemployment , medical bills , divorce , or because they are owed child support by men who file for bankruptcy .  and because women are more likely to be caring for dependent children or parents and have lower incomes and fewer assets than men , they are more likely to seek bankruptcy as a result of a divorce or a medical problem .  in 2001 , women represented 39 % of households filing for bankruptcy , while men filing independently represented only 29 % .  married couples represented 32 % .  single mothers are the group most at risk for bankruptcy -- in the last 20 years , bankruptcy filings for female-headed households have increased at more than double the rate of bankruptcies in other households .  this legislation will make it more difficult even the child support provisions in the legislation will not help women and children .  if the parent who owes child support is the debtor , the bill will divert more money to other creditors and allow more non-child support debts to survive bankruptcy .  as a result , the custodial parent , usually the mother , will have to compete with other creditors , including credit card companies , for the debtor 's limited income .  legal momentum is concerned that , unlike in the conference report of last year 's bankruptcy legislation , s. 256 does not include a provision to prevent perpetrators of clinic violence from declaring bankruptcy to avoid responsibility for their actions against patients and health care providers .  please include language that would insure that these perpetrators of violence can not use the bankruptcy system to protect themselves .  the pocketbooks of violent offenders are protected , while hardworking women struggling to make ends meet and feed their families are denied access to a system that could help and provide them with hope for the future .  legal momentum believes that if s. 256 is enacted , the economic effects on more than 1.2 million women each year will be devastating , and we strongly urge you to oppose the legislation .  if you have any questions , please contact legal momentum 's policy office at 202/326-0044 .  sincerely lisalyn r. jacobs , on civil rights , washington , dc , march 14 , 2005 .  oppose unfair bankruptcy `` reform '' dear representative : on behalf of the leadership conference on civil rights ( lccr ) , the nation 's oldest , largest , and most diverse civil rights coalition , we write to express our strong opposition to the `` bankruptcy abuse prevention and consumer protection act of 2005 '' ( h.r. 685 ) .  we urge you to oppose h.r. 685 because it poses significant concerns for the economic self-sufficiency of all working people in the united states and will cause substantial financial inequities in the process .  the issue of bankruptcy reform is of profound concern to lccr because , as a general matter , disadvantaged groups in our society disproportionately find themselves in bankruptcy courts as a result of economic discrimination in its many forms .  for example : divorced women are 300 percent more likely than single or married women to find themselves in bankruptcy court following the cumulative effects of lower wages , reduced access to health insurance , the devastating consequences of divorce , and the disproportionate financial strain of rearing children alone ; since 1991 , the number of older americans filing for bankruptcy has grown by more than 120 percent .  this age group tends to file after being pushed out of jobs and encountering discrimination in hiring , which could result in loss of health insurance , or victimization by credit scams or home improvement frauds that put their homes and security at risk , and ; african american and hispanic american homeowners are 500 percent more likely than white homeowners to find themselves in bankruptcy court largely due to discrimination in home mortgage lending and housing purchases , and to inequalities in hiring opportunities , wages , and health insurance coverage .  h.r. 685 proposes a number of changes in current bankruptcy law , and supporters claim that enactment is thereby necessary to stop abuse of bankruptcy laws .  yet a majority of those who file are working families who are not abusing the system ; instead , they have experienced financial catastrophe .  h.r. 685 would make starting over virtually impossible .  in addition , hundreds of thousands of women and children who are owed child support or alimony would be harmed under h.r. 685 , as it forces them to compete with credit card issuers and therefore would make it less likely that support payments will be made to those in need .  h.r. 685 will also make it much more difficult for businesses to reorganize , thereby forcing them into bankruptcy and eliminating much needed jobs .  h.r. 685 also fails to address one of the key reasons that bankruptcy filings have increased in recent years -- a reason that is the willful doing of many of the financial institutions that are lobbying in support of the bill -- the aggressive marketing of credit cards to our most financially vulnerable citizens , such as women , students , seniors , and the working poor .  according to a recent article in the washington post , credit card companies continue to offer credit in record amounts , in an aggressive campaign to saddle more americans with debts .  ( kathleen day , tighter bankruptcy law favored , washington post , february 11 , 2005 at a-05 ) .  yet these same companies have steadfastly resisted even the most modest reforms to help consumers avoid placing themselves in financial jeopardy in the first place , such as requiring clearer disclosure about late payment fees , interest rates , and minimum payments .  lccr has opposed bankruptcy reform proposals similar to h.r. 685 every year since 1998 .  sadly , bankruptcy reform proponents are now pushing legislation that is every bit as flawed as previous legislation and , given today 's slow economy , would lead to even more inequitable results .  we strongly urge you to reject h.r. 685 because it would radically alter the bankruptcy system in a way that imposes hardships particularly on the most vulnerable among us .  thank you for your consideration .  if you have any questions , please feel free to contact rob randhava , lccr counsel , at ( 202 ) 466-6058 .  sincerely , & lt ; center & gt ; wade henderson , & lt ; /center & gt ; & lt ; center & gt ; & lt ; em & gt ; executive director .  & lt ; /em & gt ; & lt ; center & gt ; nancy zirkin , & lt ; /center & gt ; & lt ; center & gt ; & lt ; em & gt ; deputy director. & lt ; /em & gt ; written statement of marshall wolf , may 13 , 1998 , on behalf of the governing council of the family law section of the american bar association *.*.* earlier version of this legislation concluded that `` child support and credit card obligations could be `pitted against ' one another .  ... ..  both the domestic creditor and the commercial credit card creditor could pursue the debtor and attempt to collect from post-petition assets , but not in the bankruptcy court. '' outside of the bankruptcy court is precisely the arena where sophisticated credit card companies have the greatest advantages .  while federal bankruptcy court enforces a strict set of priority and payment rules generally seeking to provide equal treatment of creditors with similar legal rights , state law collection is far more akin to `` survival of the fittest. '' whichever creditor engages in the most aggressive tactic -- be it through repeated collection demands and letters , cutting off access to future credit , garnishment of wages or foreclose on assets -- is most likely to be repaid .  as marshall wolf has written on behalf of the governing counsel of the family law section of the american bar association , `` if credit card debt is added to the current list of items that are now not dischargeable after a bankruptcy of a support payer , the alimony and child it is for these reasons that groups concerned with the payment of alimony and child support have expressed their strong opposition to the bill and its predecessors .  professor karen gross of new york law school stated succinctly that `` the proposed legislation does not live up to its billing ; it fails to protect women and children adequately. '' joan entmacher , on behalf of the national women 's law center , testified that `` the child support provisions of the bill fail to ensure that the increased rights the bill would give to commercial creditors do not come at the expense of families owed support. '' assertions by the legislation 's supporters that any disadvantages to women and children under s. 256 are offset by supposedly pro-child support provisions are not persuasive .  it is useful to recall the context in which these provisions were added .  in the 105th congress , the bill 's proponents adamantly denied that the bill created any problems with regard to alimony and child support .  although the proponents have now changed course , the child support and alimony provisions included do not respond to the provisions in the bill causing the problem -- namely the provisions limiting the ability of struggling , single mothers to file for bankruptcy ; enhancing the bankruptcy and post-bankruptcy status of credit card debt ; and making it more difficult for debtors *.*.* march 11 , 2005 .  we are professors of bankruptcy and commercial law .  we are writing with regard to the bankruptcy abuse prevention and consumer protection act of 2005 ( h.r. 685/s. 256 ) ( the `` bill '' ) .  we have been following the bankruptcy reform process for the last eight years with keen interest .  the 110 undersigned professors come from every region of the country and from all major political parties .  we are not members of a partisan , organized group .  our exclusive interest is to seek the enactment of a fair , just and efficient bankruptcy law .  many of us have written before to express our concerns about earlier versions of this legislation , and we write again as yet another version of the bill comes before you .  the bill is deeply flawed , and will harm small businesses , the elderly , and families with children .  we hope the house of representatives will not act on it .  it is a stark fact that the bankruptcy filing rate has slightly more than doubled during the last decade , and that last year approximately 1.6 million households filed for bankruptcy .  the bill 's sponsors view this increase as a product of abuse of bankruptcy by people who would otherwise be in a position to pay their debts .  bankruptcy , the bill 's sponsor says , has become a system `` where deadbeats can get out of paying their debt scott-free while honest americans who play by the rules have to foot the bill. '' we disagree .  the bankruptcy filing rate is a symptom .  it is not the disease .  some people do abuse the bankruptcy system , but the overwhelming majority of people in bankruptcy are in financial distress as a result of job loss , medical expense , divorce , or a combination of those causes .  in our view , the fundamental change over the last ten years has been the way that credit is marketed to consumers .  credit card lenders have become more aggressive in marketing their products , and a large , very profitable , market has emerged in subprime lending .  increased risk is part of the business model .  therefore , it should not come as a surprise that as credit is extended to riskier and riskier borrowers , a greater number default when faced with a financial reversal .  nonetheless , consumer lending remains highly profitable , even under current law .  the ability to file for bankruptcy and to receive a fresh start provides crucial aid to families overwhelmed by financial problems .  through the use of a cumbersome , and procrustean means-test , along with dozens of other measures aimed at `` abuse prevention , '' this bill seeks to shoot a mosquito with a shotgun .  by focusing on the opportunistic use of the bankruptcy system by relatively few `` deadbeats '' rather than fashioning a tailored remedy , this bill would cripple an already overburdened system .  1 .  the means-test : the principal mechanism aimed at the bankruptcy filing rate is the so called `` meanstest , '' which denies access to chapter 7 ( liquidation ) bankruptcy to those debtors who are deemed `` able '' to repay their debts .  the bill 's sponsor describes the test as a `` flexible ... ..  test to assess an individual 's ability to repay his debts , '' and as a remedy to `` irresponsible consumerism and lax bankruptcy law. '' while the stated concept is fine -- people who can repay their debts should do so -- the particular mechanism proposed is unnecessary , over-inclusive , painfully inflexible , and costly in both financial terms and judicial resources .  first , the new law is unnecessary .  existing section 707 ( b ) already allows a bankruptcy judge , upon her own motion or the motion of the united states trustee , to deny a debtor a discharge in chapter 7 to prevent a `` substantial abuse. '' courts have not hesitated to deny discharges where chapter 7 was being used to preserve a well-to-do lifestyle , and the united states trustee 's office has already taken it upon itself to object to discharge when , in its view , the debtor has the ability to repay a substantial portion of his or her debts .  second , the new means-test is over-inclusive .  because it is based on income and expense standards devised by the internal revenue service to deal with tax cheats , the principal effect of the `` means-test '' would be to replace a judicially supervised , flexible process for ferreting out abusive filings with a cumbersome , inflexible standard that can be used by creditors to impose costs on overburdened families , and deprive them of access to a bankruptcy discharge .  any time middle-income debtors have $ 100/month more income than the irs would allow a delinquent taxpayer to keep , they must submit themselves to a 60 month repayment plan .  such a plan would yield a mere $ 6000 for creditors over third , to give just one example of its inflexibility , the means-test limits private or parochial school tuition expenses to $ 1500 per year .  according to a study by the national center for educational statistics , even in 1993 , $ 1500 would not have covered the average tuition for any category of parochial school ( except seventh day adventists and wisconsin synod lutherans ) .  today it would not come close for any denomination .  in order to yield a few dollars for credit card issuers , this bill would force many struggling families to take their children from private or parochial school ( often in violation of deeply held religious beliefs ) for three to five years in order to confirm a chapter 13 plan .  fourth , the power of creditors to raise the `` abuse '' issue will significantly increase the number of means-test hearings .  again , the expense of the hearings will be passed along to the already strapped debtor .  this will add to the cost of filing for bankruptcy , whether the filing is abusive or not .  it will also swamp bankruptcy courts with lengthy and unnecessary hearings , driving up costs for the taxpayers .  finally , the bill takes direct aim at attorneys who handle consumer bankruptcy cases by making them liable for errors in the debtor 's schedules .  our problem is not with means-testing per se .  our problem is with the collateral costs that this particular means-test would impose .  this is not a typical means test , which acts as a gatekeeper to the system .  it would instead burden the system with needless hearings , deprive debtors of access to counsel , and arbitrarily deprive families of needed relief .  the human cost of this delay , expense , and exclusion from bankruptcy relief is considerable .  as a recent study of medical bankruptcies shows , during the two years before bankruptcy , 45 % of the debtors studied had to skip a needed doctor visit .  over 25 % had utilities shut off , and nearly 20 % went without food .  if the costs of bankruptcy are higher , the privations will increase .  the vast majority of individuals and families that file for bankruptcy are honest but unfortunate .  the main effect of the means-test , along with the other provisions discussed below , will be to deny them access to a bankruptcy discharge .  2 .  other provisions that will deny access to bankruptcy court : the means-test is not the only provision in the bill which is designed to limit access to the bankruptcy discharge .  there are many others .  for example : sections 306 and 309 of the bill ( working together ) would eliminate the ability of chapter 13 debtors to `` strip down '' liens on personal property , in particular their car , to the value of the collateral .  as it is , many chapter 13 debtors are unable to complete the schedule of payments provided for under their plan .  these provisions significantly raise the cash payments that must be made to secured creditors under a chapter 13 plan .  this will have a whipsaw effect on many debtors , who , forced into chapter 13 by the means-test , will not have the income necessary to confirm a plan under that chapter .  this group of debtors would be deprived of any discharge whatsoever , either in chapter 7 or chapter 13 .  in all cases this will reduce payments to unsecured creditors ( a group which , ironically , includes many of the sponsors of this legislation ) .  section 106 of the bill would require any individual debtor to receive credit counseling from a credit counseling agency within 180 days prior to filing for bankruptcy .  while credit counseling sounds benign , recent senate hearings with regard to the industry have led senator norm coleman to describe the credit counseling industry as a network of not for profit companies linked to for-profit conglomerates .  the industry is plagued with `` consumer complaints about excessive fees , pressure tactics , nonexistent counseling and education , promised results that never come about , ruined credit ratings , poor service , in many cases being left in worse debt than before they initiated their debt management plan. '' mandatory credit counseling would place vulnerable debtors at the mercy of an industry where , according to a recent senate investigation , many of the `` counselors '' are seeking to profit from the misfortune of their customers .  sections 310 and 314 would significantly reduce the ability of debtors to discharge credit card debt and would reduce the scope of the fresh start , for even those debtors who are able to gain access to bankruptcy .  the cumulative effect of these provisions , and many others contained in the bill ( along with the means-test ) will be to deprive the victims of disease , job loss , and divorce of much needed relief .  3 .  the elusive bankruptcy tax ?  : the bill 's proponents argue that it is good for consumers because it will reduce the so-called `` bankruptcy tax. '' in their view , the cost of credit card defaults is passed along to the rest of those who use credit cards , in the form of higher interest rates .  as the bill 's sponsor dramatically puts it : `` honest americans who play by the rules have to foot the bill. '' this argument seems logical .  however , it is not supported by facts .  the average interest rate charged on consumer credit cards has declined considerably over the last dozen years .  more importantly , between 1992 and 1995 , the spread between the credit card interest rate and the risk free six-month t-bill rate declined significantly , and remained basically constant through 2001 .  at the thus , it would appear that hard evidence of the so-called `` bankruptcy tax '' is difficult to discern .  that the unsupported assertion of that phenomenon should drive congress to restrict access to the bankruptcy system , which effectuates congress 's policies about the balance of rights of both creditors and debtors , is simply wrong .  4 .  who will bear the burden of the means-test ?  the bankruptcy filing rate is not uniform throughout the country .  in alaska , one in 171.2 households files for bankruptcy .  in utah the filing rate is one in 36.5 .  the states with the ten highest bankruptcy filing rates are ( in descending order ) : utah , tennessee , georgia , nevada , indiana , alabama , arkansas , ohio , mississippi , and idaho .  the deepest hardship will be felt in the heartland , where the filing rates are highest .  the pain will not only be felt by the debtors themselves , but also by the local merchants , whose customers will not have the benefit of the fresh start .  the fastest growing group of bankruptcy filers is older americans .  while individuals over 55 make up only about 15 % of the people filing for bankruptcy , they are the fastest growing age group in bankruptcy .  more than 50 % of those 65 and older are driven to bankruptcy by medical debts they can not pay .  eighty-five percent of those over 60 cite either medical or job problems as the reason for bankruptcy .  here again , abuse is not the issue .  the bankruptcy filing rate reveals holes in the medicare and social security systems , as seniors and aging members of the baby-boom generation declare bankruptcy to deal with prescription drug bills , co-pays , medical supplies , long-term care , and job loss .  finally , it is crucial to recognize that the filers themselves are not the only ones to suffer from financial distress .  they often have dependents .  as it turns out , families with children single mothers and fathers , as well as intact families -- are more likely to file for bankruptcy than families without them .  in 2001 , approximately 1 in 123 adults filed for bankruptcy .  that same year , 1 in 51 children was a dependent in a family that had filed for bankruptcy .  the presence of children in a household increases the likelihood that the head of household will file for bankruptcy by 302 % .  limiting access to chapter 7 will deprive these children ( as well as their parents ) of a fresh start .  conclusion : the bill contains a number of salutary provisions , such as the proposed provisions that protect consumers from predatory lending .  our concern is with the provisions addressing `` bankruptcy abuse. '' these provisions are so wrongheaded and flawed that they make the bill as a whole unsupportable .  we urge you to either remove these provisions or vote against the bill .  sincerely , richard i. aaron , s.j. quinney college of law , university of utah .  peter alexander , dean and professor of law , southern illinois university -- carbondale school of law .  thomas b. allington , professor of law , indiana university school of law -- indianapolis .  ralph c. anzivino , professor of law , marquette university school of law , allan axelrod , brennan professor of law ( emeritus ) , rutgers-newark law school .  douglas g. baird , professor of law , university of chicago law school .  patrick b. bauer , professor of law , university of iowa .  robert j. bein , adjunct professor of law , the dickinson school of law of the pennsylvania state university .  carl s. bjerre , associate professor of law , university of oregon school of law .  susan block-lieb , professor of law , fordham law school .  amelia h. boss , professor of law , temple university school of law .  kristin kalsem brandser , associate professor of law , university of cincinnati college of law .  jean braucher , roger henderson professor of law , university of arizona .  ralph brubaker , professor of law and mildred van voorhis jones , faculty scholar , university of illinois college of law .  mark e. budnitz , professor of law , georgia state university college of law .  daniel bussel , professor of law , ucla school of law .  bryan camp , professor of law , texas tech university school of law .  dennis cichon , professor of law , thomas cooley law school .  donald f. clifford , jr. , aubrey brooks professor emeritus , university of north carolina school of law .  neil b. cohen , professor of law , brooklyn law school .  andrea coles-bjerre , assistant professor , university of oregon school of law .  corinne cooper , professor emerita of law , university of missouri , kansas city .  marianne b. culhane , professor of law , creighton univ .  school of law .  susan l. dejarnatt , associate professor of law , beasley school of law of temple university .  paulette j. delk , associate professor , cecil c. humphreys school of law , the university of memphis .  a .  mechele dickerson , 2004-2005 cabell research professor of law , william and mary law school .  w .  david east , professor of law , south texas college of law .  thomas l. eovaldi , professor of law emeritus , northwestern university school of law .  mary jo eyster , associate professor of clinical law , brooklyn law school .  adam feibelman , associate professor , university of north carolina .  paul ferber , professor of law , vermont law school .  jeffrey ferriell , professor of law , capital university school of law .  larry garvin , associate professor of law , michael e. moritz college of law , ohio state university .  michael gerber , professor of law , brooklyn law school .  s. elizabeth gibson , burton craige professor of law , university of north carolina at chapel hill .  marjorie l. girth , professor of law , georgia state university college of law .  michael m. greenfield , walter d. coles , professor of law , washington university in st .  louis school of law .  karen gross , professor of law , new york law school .  steven l. harris , professor of law , chicago-kent college of law .  john hennigan , professor of law , st .  john 's university school of law .  henry e. hildebrand iii , adjunct professor , nashville school of law .  margaret howard , professor of law , washington and lee university school of law .  sarah jane hughes , professor of law , indiana university-bloomington school of law .  melissa b. jacoby , associate professor of law , university of north carolina at chapel hill .  edward j. janger , visiting professor of law , university of pennsylvania law school and professor of law , brooklyn law school .  creola johnson , associate professor of law , ohio state univeristy , moritz college of law .  daniel keating , tyrell williams , professor of law , washington university in saint louis school of law .  kenneth c. kettering , associate professor , new york law school .  jason kilborn , assistant professor , louisiana state university law center .  don korobkin , professor of law , rutgers-camden school of law .  robert m. lawless , gordon & amp ; silver , ltd. , professor of law , university of nevada , las vegas , william s. boyd school of law .  paul lewis , professor of law , the john marshall law school .  jonathan c. lipson , visiting professor of law , temple university and professor of law , university of baltimore .  lynn m. lopucki , security pacific bank professor of law , ucla law school .  ann lousin , professor of law , john marshall law school .  stephen j. lubben , associate professor of law , seton hall university school of law .  lois r. lupica , professor of law , university of maine school of law .  ronald j. mann , ben h. & amp ; kitty king powell chair in business and commercial law , university of texas school of law .  nathalie martin , dickason professor of law , unm mexico school of law .  james mcgrath , associate professor of law , appalachian school of law .  stephen mcjohn , professor of law , suffolk university law school .  juliet m. moringiello , professor of law , widener university school of law .  jeffrey w. morris , samuel a. mccray chair in law , university of dayton school of law .  james p. nehf , professor and cleon h. foust fellow , indiana university school of law-indianapolis , and visiting professor , university of georgia school of law .  spencer neth , professor of law , case western reserve university .  gary neustadter , professor of law , santa clara university school of law .  scott f. norberg , associate dean for academic affairs and professor of law , florida international university college of law .  richard nowka , professor of law , louis d. brandeis school of law , university of louisville .  rafael i. pardo , associate professor of law , tulane law school .  dean pawlowic , professor of law , texas tech university school of law .  christopher peterson , assistant professor of law , university of florida fredric g. levin college of law .  lydie pierre-louis , assistant professor of law , director , securities arbitration clinic , st .  john 's university school of law .  john a. e. pottow , assistant professor of law , university of michigan law school .  lydie nadia pierre-louis , assistant professor of law , st .  john 's university school of law .  thomas e. plank , joel a. katz distinguished professor of law , university of tennessee college of law .  katherine porter , visiting associate professor of law , university of nevada , las vegas william s. boyd school of law .  theresa j. pulley radwan , associate dean of academics , stetson university college of law .  nancy b. rapoport , professor of law , university of houston law center .  robert k. rasmussen , milton underwood chair in law , fedex research professor of law , director , joe c. davis law and economics program , vanderbilt university school of law .  david reiss , assistant professor , brooklyn law school .  alan n. resnick , interim dean and benjamin weintraub , professor of law , hofstra university school of law .  r. j. robertson , jr. , professor of law , southern illinois university school of law .  arnold s. rosenberg , assistant professor of law , thomas jefferson school of law .  keith a. rowley , associate professor of law , william s. boyd school of law , university of nevada las vegas .  david wm .  ruskin , adjunct professor of law , wayne state university law school .  michael l. rustad , thomas f. lambert jr. , professor of law & amp ; co-director of intellectual property law program , suffolk university law school .  milton r. schroeder , professor of law , arizona state university college of law .  steven l. schwarcz , stanley a. star , professor of law & amp ; business , duke university school of law , founding director , global capital markets center .  stephen l. sepinuck , professor of law , gonzaga university school of law .  charles shafer , professor of law , university of baltimore .  paul shupack , professor of law , benjamin cardozo school of law , yeshiva university .  norman i. silber , professor of law , hofstra university school of law .  david skeel , s. samuel arsht , professor of corporate law , university of pennsylvania law school .  judy beckner sloan , professor of law , southwestern university school of law .  james c. smith , professor of law , university of georgia .  charles tabb , associate dean for academic affairs and alice curtis campbell professor of law , university of illinois college of law .  walter taggart , prof .  of law , villanova university school of law .  bernard trujillo , assistant professor , u. wisconsin law school .  joan vogel , professor of law , vermont law school .  thomas m. ward , professor , university of maine school of law .  g .  ray warner , professor of law & amp ; director , ll.m .  in bankruptcy , st .  john 's university school of law .  elizabeth warren , leo gottlieb , professor of law , harvard law school .  elaine a. welle , professor of law , university of wyoming college of law .  jay lawrence westbrook , benno c. schmidt , chair of business law , university of texas school of law .  douglas whaley , professor emeritus , moritz college of law , ohio state university .  michaela m. white , professor of law , creighton university school of law .  mary jo wiggins , professor of law , university of san diego school of law .  lauren e. willis , associate professor of law , loyola law school -- los angeles .  william j. woodward , jr. , professor of law , temple university school of law .  john j. worley , professor of law , south texas college of law .  mary wynne , associate clinical professor and director indian legal clinic , arizona state university .  and this is wrong .  where are the family values in this congress ?  is it just rhetoric or do you really care about children ?  parliamentary inquiry , mr. speaker .  what is the basis for the objection to a request for insertion into the record of material ?  mr. speaker , is it not customary as a normal matter of comity in this house to allow all material requested to be placed in the record ?  mr. speaker , i appeal the ruling of the chair .  yes , it is .  mr. speaker , in light of new information , i withdraw the appeal .  i would like to respond very quickly .  if medical expenses wipe you out and you can not pay them , under this bill you can not get into chapter 7 if you can pay $ 166 a month on your bills , however much they are .  there could be hundreds of thousands of dollars that you could never pay .  mr. speaker , i rise in strenuous opposition to this unfair bill .  mr. speaker , i rise in strong opposition to s. 256 .  this bankruptcy bill is touted as reform , but it is actually a wolf in sheep 's clothing intended to allow credit card companies and other lenders to gouge consumers when they are most vulnerable .  republicans are giving this gift to big credit card companies at a time when many americans are faced with uncertain job stability , retirement security , and health coverage .  in fact , 90 % of all bankruptcies are filed due to the common financial emergency of a lost job or lack of medical coverage .  this bill makes it harder for working families to seek shelter from these devastating and unavoidable expenses .  the wall street journal recently featured the case of a constituent in my district .  crystal herndon , a single mom in haywood , california , earns $ 15 an hour .  ms. herndon got sick with pneumonia , causing her to miss six weeks of work and rack up over $ 5 , 000 in medical bills .  these unforeseen expenses caused her to fall behind on other financial obligations , and before she knew it she was simply unable to make ends meet .  bankruptcy protection was the only way out for ms. herndon and her family .  it 's hard to see the abuse in real instances of need such as these , especially when many americans live paycheck to paycheck .  sadly crystal herndon is not the only worker to be forced into bankruptcy due to unavoidable medical expenses .  according to a recent harvard university research study 2 million americans , including filers and their dependents , face the double jeopardy of illness and bankruptcy each year .  most of these medically bankrupt are middle-class homeowners with responsible jobs and health insurance coverage .  once illness strikes , high co-payments , deductibles , exclusions from coverage , and other loopholes quickly overwhelm these families ' budgets .  loss of income and health insurance often deepen this financial crisis when a breadwinner becomes too sick to work .  to add insult to injury , consumers like crystal herndon will potentially face an avalanche of litigation that they ca n't afford as a result of this bill .  the bill requires the debtor in some cases to have to challenge big corporate lenders in court to prove they are eligible to seek relief under chapter 7 of the bankruptcy code .  in addition , this bill also allows creditors to threaten debtors with costly ligitation that will force many families to needlessly give up their legal rights .  in their continuing compassion , the republicans have crafted this so-called reform so that a parent seeking child support from a bankrupt spouse will have to fight it out with creditors in order to receive payment .  meanwhile , this bill makes it easier for those seeking bankruptcy protection to lose their homes or be evicted by the landlords .  yet , those with million dollar mansions will be able to keep their homes even while seeking the same protection under the law .  nothing like a fair shake for america 's working families .  finally , mr. speaker , with all of the perks they 've awarded to the big credit card companies , republicans have done nothing to ensure that they are held accountable for their role in this consumer crisis .  there is nothing is this bill that stops the abusive , predatory lending that lands too many americans in bankruptcy in the first place .  bankruptcy has always been about giving a fresh start to those who have fallen on hard times .  the link between illness , job loss , and health insurance is a harsh reality in our country today .  it is morally reprehensible to suggest that we exploit medical tragedies befalling honest , hardworking americans in order to grant the wishes of the credit card companies .  i urge my colleagues to vote down this merciless legislation .  now is not the time to turn the tables on america 's working families .  vote no on s. 256 .  mr. speaker , parliamentary inquiry .  mr. speaker , does the rule not state that the objection must be asked for prior to the speaking of the member ?  this member spoke , and the objection was asked for after the party spoke .  my understanding is it should have been done ahead of time .  what is the correct rule ?  i am sorry , mr. speaker .  i think what i observed was she asked unanimous consent .  there was no objection .  she proceeded to speak .  she spoke , and the objection was not timely .  it was asked for after she had completed speaking .  that is what i saw .  mr. speaker , i submit that that was not a timely objection .  it was not timely .  mr. speaker , i do not think so .  and i would oppose that , and i would support my colleague , who again would ask that we have a vote on the ruling by the chair .  yes , mr. speaker .  based on my statement , he is now again appealing the ruling of the chair based on that it was untimely .  i ask the gentleman from new york ( mr. nadler )  if that is right .  yes , mr. speaker , i withdraw ; and i thank the gentleman on the opposite side of the aisle .  well , he has not heard me speak yet .  i will do that , mr. chairman .  mr. chairman , this is a very , very big opportunity and challenge for us that i think we will be able to meet .  mr. chairman , i reserve the balance of my time .  mr. chairman , i feel like the skunk at the office party , but i rise to oppose the funding for the yucca mountain project contained in this bill .  this bill shortchanges water projects and energy technology research and development , research into technologies to harness the sun and wind and reduce our dependence on foreign oil .  yet there is 15 percent more funding for yucca mountain than there was in last year 's bill despite the fact that this project is unsafe and riddled with problems and , in my estimation , can and never will be built .  i want to update my colleagues on the recent developments regarding yucca mountain , and i sincerely hope that they listen .  last month , the department of energy revealed that scientists from the u.s. geological survey who were working on the water infiltration and climate studies at yucca mountain actually falsified documentation .  water infiltration and climate are two of the most fundamental factors involved in establishing whether or not the proposed repository can safely isolate radioactive waste and prevent groundwater contamination .  in all my years fighting this project , i knew yucca mountain was not scientifically sound , but i never dreamed and never thought that federal employees would purposely falsify documents to cover up the lack of basic science .  in 90 pages of e-mails , the usgs employees fabricated dates and names of programs used in modeling for quality assurance audits and deleted information that did not fit favorable and hoped-for conclusions .  the employees made it clear that quality assurance was not a priority of this project , but rather , an obstacle .  let me share with my colleagues some of the comments made by these employees , and i quote : `` do n't look at the last four lines .  those lines are a mystery .  i 've deleted the lines from the official qa version of the files .  in the end , i keep track of two sets of files , the ones that will keep the qa happy and the ones that were actually used. '' another e-mail says , `` like you said all along , the yucca mountain project has now reached a point where they need to have certain items work no matter what , and the infiltration maps are on that list .  if usgs ca n't find a way to make it work , someone else will. '' and finally , `` i do n't have a clue when these programs were installed .  so i 've made up the dates and names .  this is as good as it 's going to get .  if they need proof , i will be happy to make up more stuff. '' no one better dare say to me on this floor that yucca mountain is based on sound science .  it is not .  last year , the u.s. court of appeals ruled that the radiation standards for the proposed repository did not follow recommendations of the national academy of sciences and would not protect the health and safety of our nation .  the difference between the findings and the radiation standards set by the epa , a mere 290 , 000 years .  mr. chairman , the doe has known for some time that this project was fatally flawed , that corners were cut , that the science did not support the conclusions and that the data were doctored .  that the doe continues to move forward with the complicity of this congress is nothing short of insanity , dangerous and insane .  employees who have raised concerns have been intimidated into silence , and the workers were purposely exposed to hazardous conditions by contractors eager to win hefty cash bonuses .  science has been manipulated to fit predrawn conclusions , and public safety and the environment have been sacrificed upon the altar of political expediency and greed .  yucca mountain is a disaster waiting to happen .  when you build a weak foundation , your building collapses , and that is why yucca mountain is collapsing before our eyes .  doe is building yucca on a weak foundation based on lies , fraud , intimidation , deception and nonexistent science .  we should be pouring our resources into renewable energy , harnessing the sun , harnessing the moon , not sticking our valuable resources into a hole in the nevada desert .  if my colleagues think that nuclear waste is so safe , let them keep it in their own states , let them keep it in their districts , by their children , by their children 's schools , by homes and hospitals , synagogues and churches ; and do not travel across this country in order to stick it in a hole in the middle of the nevada desert .  i urge us to reconsider this .  let us change our direction before we go into something that is so disastrous and dangerous that we will never forgive ourselves and never be able to be forgiven by future generations of americans .  yes , i would , mr. chairman .  it is , in fact , a drafting error .  these efficiency standards were taken from the senate bill from the 108th congress and it is a drafting error .  the date needs to be updated .  mr. chairman , i demand a recorded vote .  mr. speaker , i appreciate the gentleman 's courtesy .  we are fond of saying around here that the world changed after september 11 , but the energy bill did not .  this bill is virtually identical to dick cheney 's energy task force and where the house has been these last 4 years with concerns , notwithstanding the enron scandal , skyrocketing gasoline prices and demands on scarce oil supplies in unstable parts of the world .  it is ironic that the american public 's vision is much clearer than congress .  they want to increase the cafe standards .  the public has very clear views about the arctic wildlife refuge , that it is the last place america should look for oil , not the next place .  they oppose a waiver and relief to the mtbe manufacturers at the expense of state and local authorities and the quality of local drinking water .  this bill is looking at our energy problem through a rearview mirror .  it gives too much to the wrong people to do the wrong thing and is dramatically out of step with what the american public wants and needs .  the politics of today and yesterday 's policies do not provide an energy road map for the future .  it is true that lots of people have been working very hard on this bill , but i would suggest that never have so many worked so hard and so long to do so little to change the direction of this country 's energy future .  for the sake of the country , one hopes that there will come a time when the needs and wishes of the public is heard and it will be reflected in an energy policy for this century , cost-effective and rational ; preserving the quality of life , rather than operating on the cheap .  mr. chairman , i want to thank the gentleman from michigan for yielding this time to me and commend him on his outstanding leadership with regard to the energy bill now before us .  i have supported the passage of comprehensive energy legislation for the last two congresses , and i rise in support of the measure that is before the house this afternoon .  while i do not support all of the sections of the bill , there are a number of provisions in the energy measure that i believe will enhance our nation 's energy policy and energy security .  for example , the legislation makes valuable improvements in the area of energy efficiency and renewable energy and would make permanent the northeast home heating oil reserve .  of particular interest to me is the title on coal which would provide for the implementation of the clean coal power initiative to develop projects that would utilize clean coal technologies .  the coal title also provides for the clean air coal program to enhance the deployment of fully developed clean coal technologies .  coal is our nation 's most abundant natural resource for energy production , and it is appropriate that we take steps to accomplish the goal of incenting coal use and thereby relieving to some extent the pressure that we are experiencing at the present time on natural gas prices .  the clean air coal program would help to advance that objective .  the electricity title in the energy bill contains some beneficial provisions , and i particularly want to call attention to the smart metering title which i proposed 2 years ago in order to accelerate the deployment of real-time metering .  when consumers have knowledge of the savings they can realize by using appliances during offpeak hours , the peaks can be flattened and the utilities can avoid the necessity of having to build some very expensive new generating facilities .  i am pleased that during the last congress , we were able to reach a compromise which is also reflected in the bill before us today regarding the application of section 210 of purpa , and the legislation contains the noncontroversial and much-needed section that would make transmission reliability standards mandatory .  i am concerned , however , that the bill before us includes a provision that would cap spending on the implementation of the reliability standards .  i am concerned about that and would hope that when this measure becomes law , enough money will be available for adequate enforcement .  i also remain concerned about the total repeal of the public utilities holding company act without ensuring that adequate consumer protections remain in place .  and i have not been convinced that there is a need to give the federal energy regulatory commission the ultimate authority to site transmission power lines .  i support the legislation and i encourage my colleagues to vote for it .  i want to conclude these remarks by complimenting again the gentleman from michigan ( mr. dingell )  on his outstanding leadership and also complimenting the gentleman from texas ( mr. barton )  of the committee on energy and commerce .  he was willing to work in a bipartisan fashion in order to establish consensus on a number of these measures .  i applaud him for that willingness and for the effective work that he has done in bringing this measure to the floor .  mr. chairman , i encourage the passage of the bill .  mr. chairman , could we discuss this , please ?  mr. chairman , i withdraw my reservation of objection .  mr. chairman , i yield myself 15 seconds .  in response to the gentleman from new hampshire ( mr. bass )  , i show him the headline in the newspaper of a little town in my district , where they had to sue chevron for $ 9 billion for contamination of the water supply and it was settled out of court .  they never would have gotten the settlement without the lawsuit .  mr. chairman , i demand a recorded vote , and pending that , i make the point of order that a quorum is not present .  mr. speaker , let me thank the distinguished whip for yielding .  and i have listened to this colloquy .  and let me try to add a little bit to it , if i might .  first , i appreciate the leader 's acknowledgment on process because the process is very important .  i think the debate that we are having on the floor should have been had prior to the rule being brought under a very partisan environment for passage on the first day of session .  i think if we would have had a chance , democrats and republicans , to review the rules changes , some of the problems that are now being brought out by these rules changes would have been understood .  so let me get to the policy issue that the leader brings up .  and that is , yes , the chairman and ranking member can proceed to bring a matter before the full committee .  but they do not have the investigative power in order to understand what is involved in the particular matter .  i served on the ethics committee for over 6 years , during some very difficult times , including the bank issues , including a charge against the speaker of the house .  and i can tell you this , that if we would have had a 45-day deadline considering an investigation of this matter , there would have been no way that we could have gotten the necessary votes to proceed .  in my entire time on the ethics committee we never had a partisan division .  we always were able to work out our issues .  it was not easy .  it took time .  we had to sit down and listen to each other , get the facts .  in reality , when you look at the rules that we are bound by and the facts , generally you will reach consensus and agreement within the ethics committee , and that is exactly what happens .  but if the clock is running and there are only 45 days , and after that time there is an automatic dismissal , and that is what is in these rules now , it encourages a partisan division .  it works counterintuitive to trying to work out what a consensus would bring out which is in the best interest of the institution .  and i regret we did not have the opportunity to debate that during the process of the adoption of the rules .  it is interesting to point out that the investigation and the charges that were held against speaker gingrich brought about a lot of controversy on this floor .  and the majority leader and the minority leader at that time recognized that the only way that we could resolve rules changes was to set up a bipartisan task force , and that is when mr. livingston and myself were the co-chairs .  and we listened to the debate .  and due process for the member was a very important consideration .  and we did change the rules in order to provide for that , but we did it in a bipartisan deliberation , and that was missing this time .  and i regret that .  very briefly ?  let me just put out that when that issue was before the house , the former rules changes , we added a 180-day automatic dismissal that was rejected in a bipartisan vote by this body , just to point out to the distinguished leader .  just to correct the record , and the leader is correct .  we did vote against the package .  the package was developed in a very bipartisan manner through the task force .  there were some votes that took place on the floor of the house that were recommended against by the task force that changed some of the recommendations , and we had a motion to recommit to try to clarify that .  the gentleman is correct on the final vote , but the package itself was very much developed in a bipartisan manner through the task force in a way that it should have been done , contrary to the process that was used on this rules package .  mr. chairman , this debate comes down to fact v. fiction .  fiction -- the other side argues that drilling in pristine areas will lower gas prices .  fact -- the president 's top counselor dan bartlett said this week that there is no magic wand to reduce gas prices .  fiction -- opening anwr will relieve the u.s. from turning to foreign sources .  fact -- this bill makes our country more dependent on fossil fuels from places like the mid-east as scientists of all ideologies have stated that the limited amount of oil will not result in a lessening of oil dependency for the u.s. fiction -- opening anwr will weaken opec and strengthen the u.s. fact -- the bush administration 's own department of energy contradicts this point , when it determined last year that if world oil markets continue as they currently do , opec could `` countermand any potential price impact of arctic refuge production by reducing its exports by an equal amount ?  `` fact -- drilling in anwr will not lower gas prices at the pump ; will not protect our national sovereignty , and will not reduce our dependence on foreign oil .  fact -- vote for markey-johnson .  mr. chairman , while vice president cheney still refuses to release the records of his energy task force , it is obvious from the bill under consideration today who participated in the task force and who shaped the energy policy act before us .  for the uninitiated , let me tell you , it was the big oil , coal , natural gas , and nuclear energy companies and concerns who shaped this legislation .  according to the congressional research service , u.s. energy consumption has almost tripled between 1950 and now .  the u.s. has 3 percent of the world 's oil reserves -- but now uses 25 percent of the oil produced in the world .  in 2003 , our nation used approximately 20 billion barrels of petroleum per day -- while producing just under 6 billion barrels of crude oil .  how much has our energy use increased ?  our petroleum usage in 2003 was almost 3 times higher than it was in 1950 .  our consumption of natural gas in 2003 was almost 4 times greater than in 1950 .  our consumption of coal in 2003 was double the amount we used in 1950 .  in fact , today , in 2005 , 86 percent of the energy we consume is still generated through the use of non-renewable fossil fuels .  america 's energy policy at this critical time should pioneer the use of renewable fuels and move our nation away from dependence on fossil fuels .  at a minimum , national energy legislation should reduce our dependence on foreign oil however , the u.s. energy information administration has concluded that the legislation before us today will not support the development and wide usage of renewable fuels or even reduce our reliance on foreign oil .  in fact , the energy information administration concludes that the bill will reduce oil imports by just over 1 percent by 2025 -- 20 years from now .  while not taking any responsible steps to lay the foundation for a new energy policy in america , the bill before us does provide $ 8 billion in tax breaks for the energy industry .  in keeping with the basic irresponsibility of this legislation , less than 10 percent of these tax breaks will go to the renewable fuel industry .  h.r. 6 would also allow drilling in the arctic national wildlife preserve despite the fact that the u.s. geological survey has estimated that there is less than a year 's supply of oil in the preserve .  only 15 percent of federal land in the rocky mountain states is currently off-limit to oil drilling .  a total of 42 million acres of federally held land are currently leased to oil and gas companies .  there is no reason to expand drilling to include alaska 's wildlife preserve .  similarly , h.r. 6 would provide $ 2 billion to support research on recovering oil and gas resources from the deep waters in the gulf of mexico -- despite the fact that oil companies are generating record profits .  h.r. 6 would also limit the liability of mtbe manufacturers for pollution to drinking water supplies despite the fact that the use of mtbe was not mandated and that there was evidence even before it was widely used that it could be harmful to drinking water supplies .  the costs of cleaning up mtbe pollution will be in the billions of dollars -- far more than many local jurisdictions can afford to pay from their own resources .  while the groups who met with vice president cheney were clearly focused on maintaining the status quo in america 's energy policy , there are in fact many things that can be done to decrease our dependence on fossil fuels and particularly to decrease our dependence on foreign oil .  we can support increased energy conservation .  we can revamp -- not repeal -- the public utility holding company act .  we can implement policies to reduce the ability of energy traders to manipulate markets and rates .  further , we can increase spending on the development of bioenergy and other renewable fuels .  for example , the 2002 farm bill authorized $ 150 million in spending in fiscal 2006 to support bioenergy initiatives .  however , the president 's short-sighted fiscal 2006 budget proposes to limit expenditures on these initiatives to just $ 60 million .  such reductions in spending on bioenergy -- especially given the provisions of the h.r. 6 -- are misguided .  h.r. 6 does not provide the new energy policy we so desperately need .  i urge a no vote on this legislation .  madam chairman , over the past couple of years i have corresponded with the department of energy on an issue of particular concern to me .  the department of energy continues to spend millions of dollars , over $ 60 million so far , to defend private contractors who caused injury to citizens downwind of the hanford nuclear reservation despite provisions of the price anderson act to the contrary .  the american taxpayers should no longer have to bear the burden of defending private contractors who have harmed citizens .  i would like to submit my most recent letter to the department of energy and asked that it be made part of the record .  march 4 , 2005 .  dear mr .  secretary : thank you for your september 2003 response to my questions about the hanford nuclear reservation case .  however , i have ongoing concerns about the department of energy 's ( doe ) willingness to represent dupont and general electric at a cost of millions of taxpayer dollars .  i believe that the department 's financial support is not only ill conceived , but that it violates the intent of congress in passing the price anderson act ( paa ) .  regarding question numbered `` 2 '' of the 2003 letter , we have been informed that while the district judge accepted the defendants ' standard of proof for injuries , that decision was soundly reversed by the ninth circuit on the merits .  i am concerned that doe continues to fund , at considerable taxpayer expense , an ongoing series of technical motions by the contractors .  it was the intent of the congress of the united states when it enacted the price anderson act , to encourage the development of nuclear energy and at the same time to provide `` full compensation to the victims of nuclear incidents , '' including the people who were exposed to radiation from nuclear facilities such as hanford .  the actions of the department of energy in spending large sums of taxpayer dollars to forestall compensation to citizens who were exposed to radiation releases from hanford , represents action by a federal agency that is directly contrary to the intent of congress .  i recently learned that federal judge nielsen , on march 30 , 2004 , rejected the motion of dupont and general electric that they be dismissed from the case because they contracted with the government to run hanford .  in underwriting such a motion with taxpayer funds the department violated the intent of congress in passing the price anderson act .  the fact that the paa reimburses the companies when people are injured from a nuclear incident precluded the necessity for a `` contractor immunity '' defense as judge neilsen held .  i have now learned that you intend to financially support an appeal of that order .  any further attempts to evade the intent of the paa by the doe we believe to be a serious concern for the congress .  your letter notes that the doe does not `` disagree with the proposition that low doses of radiation can cause some forms of cancer. '' in addition , there are government studies that show exposure to radiation contributed to the onset of the claimants ' illnesses .  yet the doe continues to defend the contractors .  it would appear that contrary to the fact that workers can be compensated for thyroid cancer , non workers who were exposed to more iodine 131 than many workers would be denied similar treatment .  i do not understand this logic .  what policy consideration drives this inconsistent behavior ?  i also learned that the motions of dupont and general electric to have all cases dismissed as being filed too late based upon the statute of limitations has been dismissed .  more than $ 60 million of taxpayer funds have been spent by dupont and general electric for 15 years of loosing motions and adverse rulings .  again , i do not understand why the department of energy continues to spend millions of dollars paying lawyers to attempt to defeat claims that the congress of the united states determined should be compensated .  i further note that the hanford plaintiffs were just successful in filing a motion declaring that the operations at hanford were an `` ultra hazardous activity. '' this holding is consistent with congress ' findings regarding the operations of nuclear facilities .  we note again that the department of energy spent thousands upon thousands of dollars defending this untenable defense ( energy employees occupational illness compensation act of 2000 , 42 u.s.c .  7384 et seq ) .  i understand that a trial date has been set , and that general electric and dupont are taking the position that iodine 131 , which was released in enormous quantities from hanford , does not cause thyroid cancer .  is that the position of the department of energy ?  if not , please explain if the department is taking the position that the price anderson act does not apply to a person exposed to radiation below a certain dose , and if so what that dose is .  i understand that several million dollars more could be spent in the next year or two continuing to defend this action .  that would result in taxpayers ' money approaching the $ 100 , 000 , 000 being paid to lawyers to prevent compensation to victims of radiation exposure from hanford .  all of the defenses you have previously supported have been rejected by a federal court .  has the department of energy authorized any amount of money for settlement of this case ?  it would appear that more money may well be spent to thwart the intent of the price anderson act than would be spent in victims ' compensation .  please provide me with a detailed justification for any continued payment by the department of energy for the defense of this litigation , including specific justifications for any motions currently or intending to be filed or appealed seeking to dismiss most or all of the cases and why such action does not violate congress ' intent in enacting the paa .  sincerely , peter defazio , mr. chairman , we have a bad bill .  it is represented as being something which is going to save money and increase energy supplies .  the energy information agency says neither of these cases is true .  it is not going to reduce energy prices , but rather will increase the cost of gasoline .  let us look at what our country needs .  it needs congress to pass a real energy bill , not a flawed bill that will hurt the environment , hurt consumers , and cost taxpayers a bundle of money .  democrats have been trying to work with our republican colleagues to get balanced , sensible legislation , starting with a clean slate in a bipartisan fashion .  we have been denied that opportunity .  the republican leadership chose , instead , to push an outdated energy bill which had its origins in the secret cheney energy task force and was negotiated in secret conference meetings which excluded the democrats .  the administration 's own energy information administration analyzed the old bill saying changes to production , consumption , imports , and prices are negligible .  it even found , as i noted , that gasoline prices under the bill would increase more than if the bill were not enacted .  while the bill will little help our energy independence , it is far from benign .  despite our efforts to overturn the antienvironmental provisions of the bill , it weakens laws such as the safe drinking water act and the leaking underground storage tank program that protect the environment and public health .  the bill also changes hydroelectric power policies by undercutting safeguards for dam relicensing .  it gives power producers more and better rights than states , tribes , and other public entities .  it jeopardizes not only fish , but the overall health of our river systems and the recreational activities that they sustain ; and it confers , unfairly , rights on people , while not taking the same care of the concern of the citizenry generally .  the bill eliminates requirements for public participation and deference to the states in decisions about the siting of electric transmission lines and natural gas facilities .  as far as consumers are concerned , it is hard to imagine a better case for increasing consumer protections than the debacle which took place in the west coast electricity markets in 2000 and 2001 .  the federal energy regulatory commission has determined widespread fraud existed , and there are tapes to prove it ; yet this bill gives only cosmetic reforms in law and , in point of fact , repeals the public utility holding company act of 1935 , which protects consumers and investors .  and it does nothing to assure refunds of unjust and unreasonable overcharges .  while blackouts cost the consumers $ 80 billion , this bill holds a sensible reliability provision hostage to its more controversial provision and caps the necessary expenditure to set the job right .  taxpayers will also be hit hard by this bill .  we do not know the total cost , but last time it cost over $ 30 billion , four times the amount requested by the administration .  this is a bad bill .  i urge my colleagues to reject it .  mr. chairman , i reserve the balance of my time .  madam chairman , i demand a recorded vote .  mr. chairman , i believe that i am entitled to close the debate ?  mr. chairman , i yield myself such time as i may consume .  mr. chairman , reclaiming my time and continuing my comments , i rejoice that the gentleman has accepted it .  i commend him for having done so .  mr. chairman , the language of this bill , which appropriates $ 310 million from the nuclear waste fund `` to carry out the purposes of the nuclear waste policy act of 1982 '' does not on its face present policy concerns .  while the yucca mountain repository program faces funding problems , this is not the bill in which to address those issues and this appropriation more than meets the administration 's fy 2006 request .  the language of the committee report , however , is an altogether different matter and strays across the line from appropriating into authorizing .  it does so by directing the department of energy ( doe ) to undertake actions inconsistent with its authority under the nuclear waste policy act .  specifically , the report directs doe to `` begin the movement of spent fuel to centralized interim storage at one or more doe sites within fiscal year 2006. '' now , it is elementary that report language does not constitute a statutory mandate .  as the u.s. supreme court ruled in its 1993 opinion , lincoln v. vigil , `` it is a fundamental principle of appropriations law that where congress merely appropriates lump-sum amounts without statutory restriction , a clear inference may be drawn that it does not intend to impose legally funding restrictions , and indicia in committee reports and other legislative history as to how the funds should , or are expected to , be spent do not establish any legal requirements on the agency. '' nonetheless , report language that conflicts with an agency 's statutory responsibilities warrants a response .  the committee report directs doe to do something the nuclear waste policy act does not permit -- to establish one or more centralized interim storage facilities for commercial spent fuel , to take title to `` some '' commercial spent fuel , and to consider altering the order in which utility fuel is scheduled to be removed from utility sites .  what would adoption of this `` interim storage '' proposal mean ?  first , it would mean that some state other than nevada , which congress ratified as the sole candidate for licensing a permanent repository , would `` win '' the lottery for hosting an interim storage facility that would open in 2006 .  the report language helpfully notes that three doe sites in the states of idaho , south carolina , and washington , could be selected .  it notes as well , however , that other federal sites , including closed military bases , could be picked .  this would not be permitted under the nuclear waste policy act .  second , the proposed interim facility would not be subject to licensing by the nrc .  it is not clear that the national environmental policy act would even apply .  if you think licensing a repository at yucca mountain will be a demanding process , as it should be , the uncertainties surrounding an unlicensed interim storage facility should give pause to potentially affected communities .  third , since the proposal specifies no licensing process and no statutory criteria for site selection , it is likely that pure politics -- not seismic conditions , not storage capacity , not even security measures -- would guide doe in its selection of a fast track candidate to begin storing waste in fy 2006 .  that should send a chill up the spine of any state with a federally-owned site , since the policy proposed in the report would not provide protections equal to the nuclear regulatory commission fourth , ratepayers should be alarmed by the committee report 's interim storage proposal .  they have paid over $ 22 billion into the nuclear waste fund since 1983 for the purpose of permanent disposal -- not interim storage -- of commercial spent fuel .  an interim storage facility could add to costs in the long run , increasing ratepayers ' total payments to the fund .  fifth , utilities and the nuclear industry should be alarmed by this interim storage proposal .  while a few lucky companies ' waste might get moved before yucca mountain opens , the vast majority are likely to be stuck holding their waste longer .  interim storage is likely to divert doe 's funds and attention , just when the department needs to focus on submitting a license to the nrc and on getting yucca mountain up and running .  i commend representatives spratt and hobson for their colloquy clarifying that the committee report 's `` guidance '' to doe interim storage does not obviate the need for statutory changes to authorize doe to pursue this misguided policy .  yesterday , i sent doe secretary bodman a letter asking that and other questions , and i believe all members would be well served to consider the answers before considering such substantial modifications to current law .  madam chairman , some folks will get a lot of mileage out of this bill , but it will not be the hard-working americans who have to pay more and more at the gas pump as a direct result of the policies of this bush administration .  when the same collection of fossil fuel dinosaurs and tax loophole lobbyists come here and order congress to `` fill 'er up , '' with special favors , they seldom go away on `` empty. '' national security demands a balanced energy policy that encourages more new energy technology and renewable alternatives .  but in this bill , security is sacrificed at the altar of whichever lobbyist had the biggest limousine .  our families ' health depends on clean air and water , but this collection of tax breaks , loopholes , handouts and waivers ensures only continued healthy profits for some of the worst polluters in the world .  and this bill is not just about more smoke in the air , it is about more smoke and mirrors .  take , for example , the synthetic fuel provision that i tried unsuccessfully to strike in the committee on ways and means ; it is really about tax dodging through synthetic accounting .  unscrupulous companies get what some estimate to be up to $ 4 billion a year by spraying starch on coal or pine tar on coal .  this does not add to the energy capability of the coal .  it does not cause the coal to burn in a less polluting manner .  its sole purpose is to generate significant tax dodging .  that is why enron was about to embark on this gimmick that so many companies have abused , and which this committee on ways and means refuses to end .  this energy bill is not just about over-reliance on fossil fuels .  it is about fossilized ideals .  it is about a lost opportunity for america to be the world 's leader in energy technology .  with our security at stake , when so much of the world 's oil is located in areas as inflammable above ground as the fuel they hold underground , with our families ' health dependent on not letting the quality of our air and our water deteriorate even further than it has under this administration , this energy bill is the latest example of spending today , while the future will be billed in dollars , safety and health .  that bill will be due and paid by our children and our grandchildren , like my new little ella .  mr. chairman , there is a simple test this energy bill should pass .  is big oil going to see their largess before the american people see relief at the pump ?  the answer 's yes , and that 's exactly what 's wrong with this legislation .  it is n't a bill written for the benefit of the american people , but by high-priced lobbyists for the benefit of their high-priced clients .  the energy department says this bill does n't lower gas prices .  in fact , it could actually raise gas prices by 3 to 5 cents per gallon according to the department 's independent budget analysis .  even president bush said this bill subsidizes the oil and gas companies and that he would have written it differently .  the energy bill is supposed to provide this nation with a comprehensive energy policy , but what 's written here is an $ 8 billion give-away to big oil .  mr. chairman , yesterday the president said , `` i wish i could simply wave a magic wand and lower gas prices tomorrow. '' well , mr. president , i wish that i could wave a magic wand and get your administration and this congress out of the pockets of big oil companies .  then maybe we could begin the people 's work .  mr. chairman , i rise today in opposition to h.r. 6 , the energy policy act of 2005 .  for the third time in 5 years , the house republican leadership has passed up an historic opportunity to craft an energy policy for the 21st century .  with oil prices hitting record levels and repeated predictions that the cost of a barrel of oil could hit over $ 100 in the coming years , we should be focusing our efforts on alleviating our nation 's dependence on fossil fuels .  instead , h.r. 6 is stuck in the past .  modeled after the energy plan developed by vice president cheney 's secret energy committee 4 years ago , h.r. 6 reflects the philosophy that the only solution to the high price of oil is more oil .  however , analyses by the u.s. department of energy 's energy information administration indicate that even if the provisions of h.r. 6 becomes law , america 's imports of foreign oil will still increase by as much as 85 percent during the next 20 years , thereby increasing our dependency .  h.r. 6 should have been an honest , bipartisan effort to halt america 's growing dependence on fossil fuels for energy .  it could have been focused on developing new technologies , improving energy efficiency , promoting renewable energy , and conducting the research and development that could produce the breakthroughs that would power the world of tomorrow .  i have no objection to supporting some new or additional oil and gas exploration or production because , until we develop the energy alternatives of the future , we must continue to meet our oil and gas needs .  unfortunately , the majority of the bill 's eight billion dollars in energy tax incentives are for oil and gas production .  that 's billions in tax breaks , paid for by our children and grandchildren , going to energy companies that have been earning record profits .  even president bush admitted recently `` ... ..  with $ 55 oil , we do n't need incentives for oil and gas companies to explore. '' his fiscal year 2006 budget called for $ 6.7 billion in tax breaks for energy with 72 percent going toward renewable sources of energy and energy efficiency .  in contrast , h.r. 6 only provides six percent of the tax benefits for renewable energy and energy efficiency .  in addition , h.r. 6 irresponsibly sacrifices environmental protection for petroleum production .  exposing our great natural treasures , especially the north carolina coastline , to exploitation and possible degradation is not responsible .  for example the bill shuts states out from the appeals process for offshore mineral development , thereby limiting coastal states ' ability to protect their coastlines from unwanted energy development .  i am also dismayed that h.r. 6 continues to provide liability protection for methyl tertiary butyl ether ( mtbe ) manufacturers for past contamination of water supplies .  so republicans believe when somebody gets sick from mtbe , these companies should not be held accountable .  that 's just plain wrong .  if it becomes law , the provision will force local governments to foot the bill for removing mtbe from water supplies .  it was this single issue that scuttled the energy bill last year .  despite this , the republican leadership 's arrogance demands that this provision remain in the bill .  gas prices in america continue to reach record heights .  natural gas prices have increased raising the cost not only of the gas itself but of derivative products like fertilizer .  gas prices and energy costs affect every american .  this problem is particularly acute in farm country .  unfortunately , the republican congressional leadership wasted an opportunity to develop a prudent energy policy that directly addresses these issues and instead developed a bill that serves as a tremendous handout to oil companies .  as a result , i oppose h.r. 6 .  mr. chairman , i rise today to state my opposition to h.r. 6 , the energy policy act .  we can not simply seek more fossil fuel supplies and increase use of conventional energy sources as a long-term solution to improving the united states ' energy security .  instead of creating a truly comprehensive plan for addressing our energy needs , this legislation sets us on the wrong path , making us more reliant on oil than we already are .  it will not help consumers save on energy costs and it will not help the u.s. become energy independent .  this legislation sends us in the wrong direction by relying on the fuels of today to provide energy in the future .  we can not sacrifice investment in new , cleaner , domestic sources in order to pay $ 8.1 billion to oil producers in tax cuts and subsidies .  i am pleased to see that h.r. 6 does contain some encouraging provisions , such as increasing use of ethanol and biodiesel , but these provisions are far outweighed by the bill 's misguided support of oil .  we need to create new , clean , renewable resources for addressing our current and future needs and develop technology and programs that encourage conservation .  this legislation would allow the oil industry , currently experiencing some of its most profitable years , to further their reach through exploration in sensitive environments , such as the arctic national wildlife refuge , and the great lakes .  allowing such activities is misguided at best .  additionally , h.r. 6 takes mtbe producers off the hook for dirtying local drinking water supplies and passes the costs of the clean up to state and local government .  additionally , this legislation will not stabilize the electricity market .  one of the primary purposes of developing a comprehensive energy policy for the u.s. is to prevent another regional blackout and to prevent future enron-like scandals .  the legislation that was brought to the house floor exposes consumers to potential electricity scams by repealing the public utility holding company act ( pucha ) .  this measure was enacted to prevent companies like enron from holding monopolies and help consumers get justice when companies conspire to cheat .  the federal energy regulatory commission is not designed to effectively protect consumers .  in order to create a policy that looks to future needs and u.s. security , we can not rely on increased drilling and oil refineries .  we must look to methods to reduce our need for energy and expand the domestic and renewable resources available to us .  finding new , efficient , clean , renewable sources of energy is not just better than continuing down the path h.r. 6 sends us on , it is necessary for the security of the u.s . madam chairman , i rise in strong opposition to this so-called comprehensive energy bill before us today .  this energy package have a new wrapping and bow but it is the same white elephant gift for the american people that sadly passed in this house last congress .  our nation 's energy policy must strike a sound balance by pursuing improvements in fuel technology and energy efficiency ; maintaining a clean environment ; and preserving our wilderness areas and public lands .  instead , by refusing to commit to improving and investing in sustainable fuel technology , we are putting our technology and manufacturing industries at a competitive disadvantage when the rest of the planet is searching for alternatives to fossil fuels .  we are missing an opportunity here ; as a future energy policy this legislation is bumbling along because of following the policies in this bill would be like driving into the future by looking through the rearview mirror with its heavily weighted dependence on fossil fuels .  h.r. 6 falls depressingly short of addressing our energy needs in both the short and the long term .  based on the pro-industry recommendations of the cheney energy task force report , this bill is anti-taxpayer , anti-environment , anti-consumer and is loaded down with special-interest giveaways .  madam chairman , more than ninety percent of the subsidies in h.r. 6 would go to the oil , gas , coal and nuclear industries , leading to more pollution , more oil drilling and more radioactive-waste-producing nuclear power .  by contrast , only about six percent of the tax breaks would go to energy efficiency and renewable energy incentives that could actually save consumers money and reduce our dependence on dirty energy sources .  madam chairman , gas prices , gas prices , gas prices and more gas prices .  it 's the most asked question i hear in my district and rightly so with prices in my home town of more than $ 3 a gallon and a national average price at a record level of $ 2.24 a gallon -- more than 50 percent higher than average gas prices in 2002 .  according to the bush administration 's own energy department estimates , this republican bill will actually increase gas prices by 3 cents and will have virtually no effect on production , consumption , or barrel prices .  american consumers are being squeezed at the pump while the big oil companies are reaping record profits and the republican leadership is passing an energy bill that will further raise gas prices .  how in good faith can we go back to out constituencies with a national energy policy that does not address the future , does not address short term fixes or long term solutions .  madam chairman , several provisions in h.r. 6 will weaken california 's rights as a state to govern itself .  these include changes in : lng terminal siting , weakening the coastal zone management act , and expanding alternative energy projects situated on the outer continental shelf ( ocs ) .  the bill will hand over exclusive jurisdiction for the siting of liquefied natural gas ( lng ) facilities to the federal energy regulatory commission ( ferc ) , preventing the states from having a role in approving the location of lng terminals and the conditions under which these terminals must operate .  this bill even goes as far as making the states seek ferc permission before conducting safety inspections !  plus , they will be barred from taking any independent enforcement action against lng terminal operators for safety violations .  h.r. 6 weakens california 's rights under the czma to object to a ferc-approved coastal pipeline or energy facility project when the project is inconsistent with the state 's federally-approved coastal management program .  currently when there is a disagreement about a project , the secretary of commerce , through an administrative appeals process , determines whether and under what conditions the project can go forward .  states can present new evidence supporting their arguments to the secretary .  under h.r. 6 , states will not be allowed to present new evidence to the secretary , and the secretary will not be allowed to seek out evidence on his or her own .  the secretary will only be allowed to rely on the record compiled by ferc .  furthermore , the bill imposes an expedited timeline for appeals , which may not allow a full review of the facts .  we have to protect our shores and near waters .  h.r. 6 will give the department of interior permitting authority for `` alternative '' energy projects , such as wind projects , situated on the outer continental shelf ( ocs ) .  it also grants the department of interior authority to permit other types of energy facilities , including facilities to `` support the exploration , development , production , transportation , or storage of oil , natural gas , or other minerals '' .  another very dear issue in california is the fuel additive mtbe ( methyl tertiary butyl ether ) , i oppose shielding mtbe producers from product liability lawsuits , thereby forcing taxpayers to pick up the tab to clean up contaminated groundwater in places such as the salinas valley , the salad bowl of the world , which has already tested positive for mtbe .  the bill even includes a $ 2 billion taxpayer-financed subsidy to mtbe producers to convert facilities to produce other chemicals .  the obvious gouging of california consumers is significant evidence that the electricity energy market lacks much needed controls .  does h.r. 6 correct this ?  no -- instead of protecting americans from the market manipulation that has become all too prevalent , h.r. 6 is weighed down by special interest exemptions that will do more harm than good .  the bill does not give federal regulators the tools they need to prevent and punish bad actors like enron who manipulate power markets .  instead h.r. 6 offers cosmetic reforms .  moreover , the bill does nothing to provide refunds to my constituents and west coast consumers who paid unjust and unreasonable electricity prices during 2000-2001 .  madam chairman , it 's plain and simple -- h.r. 6 : fails to lower gasoline prices ; fails to improve our nation 's energy efficiency or promote sustainable alternatives ; fails to adequately address future infrastructure needs ; fails to learn from the lessons of the california electricity crisis ; and fails to prevent future `` enrons '' from manipulating energy markets at the expense of consumers .  i urge my colleagues to oppose this legislation so we can develop a comprehensive energy policy that looks to the future and does n't rely on repackaged outdated technologies from the past .  mr. speaker , i appreciate the honesty of the gentleman .  let me suggest the way that he can reunite himself : help us vote down the rule .  that will not jeopardize the bill .  when the rule is voted down , the rules committee will have to do the right thing .  mr. chairman , i yield myself such time as i may consume .  first i would like to thank the gentleman from new york ( mr. boehlert )  , chairman of the committee on science , and the gentlewoman from illinois ( mrs. biggert )  , chair of the subcommittee on energy , for their hard work and cooperation in developing the foundation of title ix , the r & amp ; d title of this bill .  a stable domestic energy supply is essential to the economic well-being and security of our nation .  while the bill on the floor today has provisions that are not acceptable to many democrats and republicans , there are good points worth mentioning in title ix .  of particular note are the provisions ensuring greater doe cooperation with the smaller colleges and universities who will train our next generation of scientists , mathematicians , technicians and teachers .  the department , as well as the traditional large research universities , could benefit from the enormous pool of talented researchers in the nation 's smaller colleges and universities , and i encourage greater collaboration .  i would also like to highlight the work of several of our members on key components of doe research and development in title ix : the interest of the gentleman from california ( mr. honda )  in the progress of the next generation lighting initiative , the stanford linear accelerator and the joint genomics institute and his work with the gentleman from connecticut ( mr. larson )  on transit bus demonstrations of fuel cells ; the continued dedication of the gentlewoman from california ( ms. woolsey )  and the gentleman from colorado ( mr. udall )  to clean , renewable and efficient energy technologies ; the work of the gentleman from illinois ( mr. costello )  to ensure that utilization of our vast coal resources only gets cleaner and more efficient ; the vision of the gentlewoman from california ( ms. zoe lofgren )  in support of domestic fusion energy research and international fusion projects ; the work of the gentleman from tennessee ( mr. davis )  to ensure good science continues at oak ridge national laboratory , particularly in the area of high-end computing ; the efforts of the gentleman from north carolina ( mr. miller )  to establish a nationwide network of advanced energy technology transfer centers to get technologies off the laboratory shelf and into the marketplace ; finally , the tireless commitment of the gentlewoman from texas ( ms. jackson-lee )  to research and development at historically black colleges and universities and other minority-serving institutions .  the committee on science contributed virtually all of title ix , the research and development title of this bill .  while research and development programs typically have not been controversial , i believe the title ix provisions represent a major part of this legislation .  the r & amp ; d programs authorized in this bill will provide the means to produce energy that this country will need for the foreseeable future .  mr. chairman , i reserve the balance of my time .  mr. chairman , i guess this is a postponed vote on mtbe .  it is an issue we have been dealing with , at least in the committee on energy and commerce , for a number of years .  mtbe was mandated , maybe not specifically in the clean air act of 1990 , but reformulated gas was .  and for an area like i have in houston , we have been using mtbe as a reformulated gas in our gas to clean up our air because it replaced the lead that we used to have because lead was polluting .  and now we find out that mtbe does not smell or taste good and that is right .  but whatever we have in our gas tanks is not something else we want to smell or taste , either .  we may not be able to taste the benzene and everything else .  but epa informed congress in 1990 that a reformulated oxygenate requirement would be met almost exclusively by mtbe , and congressional statements at the time reflect that knowledge .  nowadays you can use ethanol , which comes a long way , or mtbe .  it is true mtbe existed before the clean air act of 1990 .  in fact , it was first approved by the epa in 1979 to comply with another federal gasoline mandate , in reducing lead .  epa followed the legislative history of the clean air act and its scientific analysis and repeatedly reaffirmed approval for mtbe .  the reason this bill has this provision in here is because we mandated reformulated gas in certain areas , including the district i represent .  we have not had trouble with mtbe in groundwater or surface water pollution , at least in the houston area .  i know some parts of the country have .  the oxygenate requirement has done a great deal to clean up our smoggy urban air ; and to this day the epa will talk about the success of it , particularly in the houston area .  mtbe is on the way out and being cleaned up around the country , regardless of the amount of litigation .  tank owners , insurance and state funds are doing the real work , 96 percent of all cleanups according to the epa .  a case in point , the city of santa monica is suing its former law firm over the $ 66 million legal bill for its trouble in suing over mtbe .  i guess the concern i have is that mbte , if it is a defective product , we mandated it .  and let me quote from some of the remarks earlier in the clean air act .  we had members who are still sitting members of congress who were bragging about , we mandated the oil companies to be able to do stuff , for cleaning up our air ; and yet nowadays , 10 years later , 15 years later , we are going to say , no , they are responsible , even though we told them to do it , and it has been successful .  my concern about the loss of mbte , we can not trade clean air for clean water ; we have to have both .  and there is a way we can have both , but not by taking away the ability to have mbte , which is probably the most in use because it is the most efficient in reformulated gasoline .  but , again , congress made a decision to deal with ethanol more than mbte , and that will happen .  this bill allows for fixing the best by using the leaking underground storage tank fund , and that will go a long way to help us .  mr. chairman , i thank the gentleman from indiana for yielding me this time .  i want to urge strong support for the fiscal year 2006 energy and water bill .  this legislation provides investment in water infrastructure essential not only to our country but to the texas economy .  i want to thank the gentleman from ohio ( mr. hobson )  , the gentleman from indiana ( mr. visclosky )  and also the gentleman from texas ( mr. edwards )  for their assistance on these projects , particularly two flood projects , hunting and greens bayous in my district .  thousands of my constituents ' homes and businesses are at risk from catastrophic flooding in these areas , and the funding in this bill , $ 500 , 000 and $ 150 , 000 each , keeps these projects on track .  i would also like to express my strong support for the $ 26 million included for the houston ship channel deepening and widening project .  this funding means we are on track to complete the deepening and widening this year and begin the barge lanes and environmental restoration .  however , the tough operations and maintenance budget of the corps could have counterproductive effects .  the houston ship channel budget is $ 5 million under capability for 2006 .  if we can not maintain our channels to the right depth , then modern ships will not be able to take advantage of this new project .  the project will also suffer as millions taken out through reprogramming are not returned as promised by the corps .  the new policy to rein in reprogramming by requiring committee approval over $ 1 million is very sound .  reprogramming goes against the letter , number and intent of congress .  financial stability is essential and large investments are made on the basis of congressional appropriations .  more market risk equals higher cost for all the projects .  we should note a few brief points about projects that have been lost to reprogramming in the past and need to be made whole .  it seems unjust that the solution to restore the letter and spirit of the law falls on the backs of the most recent victims of reprogramming such as our houston ship channel who had reprogrammed dollars not returned .  mr. chairman , i include for printing in the record written commitments from the corps under two administrations .  the word and spirit of these commitments are to honor congressional appropriations law .  congressional and corps promises deserve to be honored .  that is the same principle behind the extremely wise reprogramming policy of the future in this bill .  however , we should allow the corps to fulfill its past commitments .  again , i would like to thank the chair and the ranking member of the subcommittee and the full committee for making this bill possible .  department of the army , southwestern division , corps of engineers , dallas , tx , september 18 , 2001 .  dear mr .  green : thank you for your letter dated august 29 , 2001 , concerning the houston-galveston navigation channels , texas project .  i regret that members of my staff were not able to meet with you on september 12 , 2001 , to discuss this project in more detail .  based on conversations with your office and mr. william dawson of my staff , the following information will address your primary concern .  the u.s. army corps of engineers remains fully committed to completion of this project based on the optimal construction schedule .  i can further assure you that we will reprogram up to $ 20 million in construction funds as required to this project to ensure that this schedule is maintained irrespective of any shortfall in the fiscal year 2002 congressional appropriation .  i continue to appreciate your patience and willingness to work with us on this matter .  please do not hesitate to contact me if you have any further questions about the houston-galveston navigation channels project .  sincerely , & lt ; center & gt ; david f. melcher , & lt ; /center & gt ; & lt ; center & gt ; & lt ; em & gt ; brigadier general , u.s. army commanding general .  & lt ; /em & gt ; congress of the united states , washington , dc , august 29 , 2001 .  dear general melcher : i am writing you today with my concerns about the fy 2002 army corps of engineers ( corps ) allocation for the houston-galveston navigation channel .  this project , funded by the corps at $ 28.785 million , realistically requires $ 46.8 million to keep it on an optimal construction schedule .  over the past several years , funding totaling at least $ 20 million has been reprogrammed from this project to other corps projects .  given the discrepancy between the fy 02 corps budget and the amount of funding required to keep this project on schedule , i am requesting that the corps return the full amount of reprogrammed money to this project in its fy 02 budget .  i have enclosed correspondence from the corps that my office received at the time when these funds were reprogrammed for your review .  i would also like to request a meeting with you in my washington , dc office , along with congressman chet edwards , during the second week in september to discuss this issue .  if you have any questions on this matter , please contact bob turney in my washington office at ( 202 ) 225-1688 .  thank you for your prompt attention to this request .  sincerely , gene green , department of the army , southwestern division , corps of engineers , dallas , tx , march 11 , 1999 .  dear congressman green : this letter is in response to your concerns regarding the proposed reprogramming of funds from the houston-galveston navigation channels , texas project .  i am aware of , and fully appreciate the importance of the houston-galveston navigation channels project to the economy of this region and the nation .  the corps of engineers , southwestern division , is fully committed to completion of the project based on the most optimal construction schedule .  i have made the recommendation to reprogram funds from this project only after being personally convinced that the project schedule can not be advanced beyond what has currently been scheduled to be accomplished this fiscal year .  based on this analysis , i have determined that these funds are truly excess to this year 's project needs .  the proposed reprogramming is to be a temporary reallocation of funds to maximize their use .  they will be restored to the project when they are required to ensure that we will maintain the optimal construction schedule .  i am providing an identical letter to the honorable chet edwards , honorable nick lampson , and the honorable ken bentsen .  thank you for your involvement in the development of the water resources infrastructure within the state of texas .  if i can be of assistance on any other matter , please feel free to contact me .  sincerely , & lt ; center & gt ; edwin j. arnold , jr. , & lt ; /center & gt ; & lt ; center & gt ; & lt ; em & gt ; brigadier general , u.s. army commanding general & lt ; /em & gt ; congress of the united states , washington , dc , february 26 , 1999 .  dear mr .  loew : for two consecutive years , the congress appropriated sufficient funds in the energy and water development appropriations bill to permit the completion of the navigational features of the houston ship channel project in four years .  maintaining this optimal construction schedule is a priority for us because it will add an additional $ 281 million to the project 's return on investment and save taxpayers $ 63.5 million in increased escalation and investment costs .  we appreciate the efforts you have made to fully inform us about the need to reprogram $ 2.2 million to the giww-aransas national wildlife refuge project , as well as your understanding of our concerns .  in the spirit of cooperation , we and the houston port authority are willing to support the corps request to reprogram funds from the houston-galveston navigation project .  however , we would first ask to receive assurance in writing that the corps will reprogram other funds to the houston project to replace those lost .  further , our understanding is that funds will be reprogrammed back to the houston ship channel project by fy 2001 .  in addition , if the dredging project suddenly moves ahead of schedule , the corps must do everything possible to ensure that a delay does not occur .  we look forward to your prompt response .  sincerely , & lt ; center & gt ; gene green , & lt ; /center & gt ; & lt ; center & gt ; & lt ; em & gt ; member of congress .  & lt ; /em & gt ; & lt ; center & gt ; chet edwards , & lt ; /center & gt ; & lt ; center & gt ; & lt ; em & gt ; member of congress .  & lt ; /em & gt ; & lt ; center & gt ; ken bentsen , & lt ; /center & gt ; & lt ; center & gt ; & lt ; em & gt ; member of congress. & lt ; /em & gt ; & lt ; center & gt ; nick lampson , & lt ; /center & gt ; & lt ; center & gt ; & lt ; em & gt ; member of congress. & lt ; /em & gt ; mr. chairman , i demand a recorded vote .  mr. chairman , i thank the gentleman , but sometimes enough is enough and members want to go home .  mr. chairman , i demand a recorded vote , and pending that , i make the point of order that a quorum is not present .  mr. chairman , coal is by far the largest domestic source of energy we produce .  here in the united states , we have between 250 and 300 years of a coal supply .  that is more than the amount of recoverable oil contained in the entire world .  i am proud to represent the anthracite coal fields of pennsylvania , which have the largest anthracite coal deposit in north america , arguably the largest deposit in the world .  it is a high-btu , low-sulfur fuel , and is considered the cleanest-burning solid fuel on the commercial market today .  but as we can see through rising fuel prices , we are too dependent upon foreign oil .  in the united states , we consume about 20.5 million barrels of oil per day .  that 's about 7.5 billion barrels per year .  half of that is imported .  and almost half of american oil consumption is for motor vehicles .  one of our priorities should be to reduce our dependence on foreign oil .  we should be increasing research and development into our fossil fuel program .  with continued research of coal , the potential of the united states becoming energy self-sufficient in an environmentally friendly manner is enhanced .  for over 15 years , through the clean coal programs of the department of energy , the federal government has been a solid partner , working jointly with private companies and the states to develop and demonstrate a new generation of environmentally clean technology using coal .  one benefit of the clean coal programs takes advantage of a decades ' old technology of converting coal and waste coal into clean diesel fuel .  in pennsylvania alone , there is an excess of 200-300 million tons of waste coal that has accumulated over the years .  a company in gilberton , pennsylvania , in my district , is ready to do convert this waste coal to diesel fuel and electricity on a large scale .  the plant has received support from doe 's clean coal power initiative .  coal research and development provides huge benefits for the nation , and pay for itself many times over through taxes flowing back to the treasury from expanded economic activity .  the clean coal programs are important for several reasons .  they : clean up the environment by burning waste coal ; reduce emissions of nitrogen oxides and air toxics ; develop cleaner , more efficient power systems ; sponsor promising technologies that are too risky for private industry to undertake alone ; provide a model for future government-industry technology partnerships ; and provide tremendous job opportunities in this country , not in the middle east .  in 2002 , president bush said , `` we will promote clean coal technology. '' the president recently outlined four important objectives that need to be included in this energy bill .  these objectives are all met by clean coal programs : encourage the use of technology to improve conservation ; encourage more production at home in environmentally sensitive ways ; diversify our energy supply by developing alternative sources of energy and create more energy choices ; and help us find better , more reliable ways to deliver energy to consumers .  we need to take advantage of our own natural resources .  i encourage my colleagues to continue to support clean coal programs .  mr. chairman , i demand a recorded vote .  mr. chairman , how much time remains ?  mr. chairman , i rise today to express my concerns with the army corps of engineers and my hope that language included in this bill will rein their disregard for congressional requests .  i concur with the committee 's expressed dissatisfaction with the army corps managing of water projects and their excessive transfer of funds between projects .  many of us have long been frustrated with the army corps is their mishandling of projects throughout the nation .  although congress authorizes and appropriates specific projects , the army corps repeatedly ignores these guidelines and sets their own priorities .  this has resulted significant delays that further distress the communities near these uncompleted projects .  in the 12th congressional district , the environmental restoration of grover 's mill pond is a most egregious example of the army corps disregard for congressionally mandated projects .  located at the site made famous by orson wells ' `` war of the worlds '' radio broadcast , grover 's mill pond is not only a historic site , but it is a recreation destination within west windsor township and a vital link in the township 's stream corridors and watershed area .  years of sediment build-up and runoff from the watershed have caused the pond to become overrun with aquatic weeds and algae .  this pond in its current condition is not only an eyesore for the community and the residents that live near it , but gives off an unpleasant odor in the summer .  completion of this project is long overdue , and could have been completed had the army corps not transferred almost all of the $ 500 , 000 that was specifically designated by congress for this project .  thankfully , the committee has once again designated funding for this project , and i expect that the army corps will follow congressional designation and not once again shortchange my constituents in favor of a project they deem more worthy .  unfortunately , other unfinished projects in my district such as mccarter 's pond and rogers pond did not receive additional funding in this bill .  i am hopeful that the strong and clear direction the committee has given the army corps in this bill will force them to complete such projects in the future and encourage them not to create such unpleasant situations in the future .  i thank the committee for their desire to assist my constituents and this nation by providing additional funds for unfinished projects and expressing their severe dissatisfaction with the army corps management of water projects .  i hope this legislation will serve as an important step in reforming this agency and ensuring that our communities receive the environmental restoration assistance they desperately need .  mr. speaker , i take this time for the purpose of inquiring of the majority leader the schedule for the coming week .  mr. speaker , reclaiming my time , i thank the gentleman for informing us of that schedule .  mr. leader , tomorrow is a day on which the conference report on the budget is supposed to be adopted , as you well know .  however , the house is yet to appoint conferees .  when might we appoint conferees , given the fact that we are already behind schedule ?  mr. speaker , reclaiming my time , i thank the gentleman .  obviously he articulates reasons that he believes this bill is an important piece of legislation .  in light of the fact that the speaker has not yet decided who he wants to appoint as conferees , does the gentleman have any thought as to when we might contemplate having the conference committee meet and then , of course , the conference report on the floor ?  i ask that from two perspectives : one , as the representative of the party who would like to know what is going on , as i am sure the gentleman would as well ; and , secondly as an appropriator .  as the gentleman knows , until the conference committee report is adopted , it has the appropriations committees somewhat in limbo as it relates to allocations to the committees and then allowing us to make the 302 ( b ) allocations .  mr. speaker , i yield further to my friend in terms of what expectations he might have as to timing from this point to when we might adopt a budget , in light of the fact it is my understanding from the staff of the gentleman from california ( mr. lewis )  that there is hope that we will start to mark up bills sometime in mid-may .  i do not know whether the majority leader has the same understanding or not .  mr. speaker , reclaiming my time , i appreciate the gentleman 's observation .  my presumption is then , mr. chairman , before he leaves the floor , my presumption would be , for the members of the house and also for the members of the committee on appropriations , that the committee on appropriations will proceed as if the house numbers were the numbers ?  am i correct on that ?  mr. speaker , i thank the gentleman .  reclaiming my time , the business that the gentleman from texas has set forth for next week is the energy business .  given the schedule the gentleman has just announced , would the gentleman expect the bill to be on the floor both wednesday and thursday ?  mr. speaker , reclaiming my time , i thank the leader .  given the time that is allocated to this bill , i presume , as the leader has apparently indicated , that it is the expectation of the committee on rules to have a full amendatory process .  my expectation is you are not going to have a fully open rule but that you would have some modified open rule .  am i correct on that ?  mr. speaker , reclaiming my time , some of us do not believe that is quite as obvious as the gentleman does .  mr. speaker , reclaiming my time , i appreciate the leader 's observation .  i know that , on our side , we had a discussion on that bill this morning .  all of us believe the energy bill is a very , very important piece of legislation .  all of us are concerned about the gas prices that are confronting all of our constituents .  i have a number of employees who commute significant distances .  although they live relatively close by , it is a 45-minute commute in traffic and a lot of gas , and they spend a lot of money on gasoline .  in addition to that , energy independence , of course , is part of our national security .  so we are hopeful that we will fashion a bill in a bipartisan way that we can see passed and signed by the president .  mr. speaker , the last item i would ask the majority leader about is , as the gentleman knows , the ethics process in the house is essentially at a standstill .  the gentleman has made that observation , obviously ; and we have made that observation as well .  efforts to move the ethics process forward have failed so far , both in committee and on the floor , when virtually all of the members on the gentleman 's side of the aisle , now twice , have voted to table motions that would have provided for the appointment of a bipartisan task force to make recommendations to restore public confidence in the ethics process .  as the gentleman knows , the gentleman from maryland ( mr. cardin )  , he was sitting to my left here , although he is now to my right ; maybe he is running for office and wants to position himself ; but the gentleman from maryland ( mr. cardin )  and mr. livingston performed an outstanding service for this house in coming together and adopting and presenting , proposing a bipartisan ethics process .  we had that in place , as the gentleman knows , and it was changed , we believe , in a partisan fashion .  we oppose that change , as the gentleman knows , as does the former chairman of the committee on standards of official conduct , the gentleman from colorado ( mr. hefley )  .  he and the gentleman from west virginia ( mr. mollohan )  have a bill , and that bipartisan resolution has now 207 cosponsors , and that would simply return the ethics rules to where they were , adopted bipartisanly , proposed bipartisanly by the livingston-cardin committee , and it would return to a place where we believe the committee on standards of official conduct would not be at impasse .  we are also concerned about , as the gentleman knows , the chairman 's proposition that we have a partisan division now of the ethics staff , which heretofore has been a bipartisan , i might even say nonpartisan , staff .  i would respectfully inquire , given that background , which the gentleman knows , of course , if and when we might see house joint resolution 131 on the floor .  as i say , it has 207 cosponsors .  it reflects the bipartisan agreement of the livingston-cardin committee and the bipartisan vote of this house some years ago in adopting the livingston-cardin option .  in the alternative , of course , when we might find an opportunity to support a bipartisan commission that could again look at this and try to get us off the dime .  i know i have mentioned a number of points , mr. leader , but i know that the gentleman believes it is important personally and institutionally .  i have worked with the gentleman institutionally .  we want to see this institution not mired in ethical questions of our side or of the gentleman 's side .  i think that either direction might get us there .  mr. speaker , reclaiming my time , i thank the leader for his thoughtful response .  we have a difference of view on the change that was made from the livingston-cardin and house-adopted ethics rules which provided for an investigation of any member to go forward unless a majority of the committee disposed of it .  that meant , as the gentleman knows , that it would have to be bipartisan , because the committee is equally divided , so we would have to have at least one other member , assuming one party was united on either side , one other member of the other party to join in the disposition of a case .  and if that disposition did not occur , an investigation would go forward .  unfortunately , it is our perception , i say to the gentleman , that what the speaker , because the gentleman said the speaker wanted to protect the members , what the speaker has done from our perspective and , we think , from the perspective of many is created a process where on the inaction of the committee , based upon a tie vote so that a partisan group can stop an investigation , that the investigation will thereby be dismissed .  so it turned the process 180 degrees , from having a bipartisan vote to dismiss to now having a partisan vote or a bipartisan vote necessary to proceed .  we believe that undermines the protection of the institution .  we believe that that was not necessary in order to protect individuals and members , which we think is an appropriate due-process protection .  i certainly will , but let me make one additional point .  every previous change that i know of , and you and i have been here about the same time .  i have been here perhaps a couple of years longer than you .  every change that i know of in the ethics rules have been affected by a bipartisan agreement until this one .  there were only a few votes , i think we were almost unanimous on our side , which is not unusual , which is why the ethics rules has historically been separate and apart , perhaps in the rules package , but agreed to in a bipartisan fashion .  and that is my concern .  mr. speaker , reclaiming my time , i thank again the gentleman for his thoughtful remarks .  we see it differently , mr. leader .  what we have created is the ability of both sides to stop investigations in their tracks .  both sides .  our side , if we block up , and our five say you are not going to investigate steny hoyer , they can do it .  formerly they could not do that .  and i believe your analogy is not apt , and i want to tell you why i think so , mr. leader .  the investigation is the gathering of facts , not the charging , not the finding of involvement .  we do not use the term `` guilt , '' but the finding of involvement .  it is an investigation to gather the facts from which the decision-makers , whether it be a grand jury or a petit jury , whether it be a judge or whether it be a prosecutor who determines whether to bring an indictment .  once those decision-makers have the facts , they can then make a rational decision , we hope .  what we have done , however , in changing the rules , which were adopted in a bipartisan fashion , is to allow either side to preclude the investigator from gathering the facts .  that is as if we could preclude the police or the fbi or others from gathering facts that they would then , in turn , submit to a decision-maker , whether a grand jury to bring an indictment , a prosecutor to bring a charge , a petit jury to bring a conviction .  i think that is inaccurate i certainly will yield to the leader , but before i do , do you see my point , mr. leader ?  either one of us could protect ourselves .  either one of us , your side could protect yourselves by your five holding firm .  our side could protect ourselves by holding firm .  that may protect us individually , but our position is it does not protect the institution , and that is what our concern is .  no , sir .  reclaiming my time , mr. leader .  i want to apologize to the gentleman .  mr. speaker , reclaiming my time .  mr. speaker , reclaiming my time , just for 1 minute .  very briefly .  mr. leader , we obviously have a disagreement in the perceptions as to what the rule does and does not do .  i think both you and i are very concerned about the reputation and integrity of this house .  i think you share that view and i share that view .  it is my suggestion that resolving this in a way that is bipartisan will be productive for the house .  mr. hefley , the former chairman , i do not agree with mr. hefley  on a lot of things , but i do agree with his perception of how we protect the integrity of the house .  there may be people on my side of the aisle who agree with your perception and not mine .  i understand that .  the fact is , though , that it would be in the best interest of this house and this country for us to resolve these matters in a bipartisan way either through , as our leader has proposed , a commission to be a joint commission equally divided , as was the livingston-cardin commission , or , in the alternative , to consider h.r. 131 .  the leader is absolutely right , and i made that aside , as you recall .  we did vote against the rules package , but we had agreed to the components , and there was no controversy about the ethics component in the rules package .  there were other things with which we disagreed , obviously , but that was an agreement , and it was reached in a bipartisan fashion .  this was not reached in a bipartisan fashion .  and , yes , as both parties usually did , i can remember , it is getting more difficult to remember , but i can remember when we were in charge and your side used to vote unanimously against our rules package and we pretty much do the same because we have some disagreements .  but there was agreement on the rules package as it related to the committee on standards of official conduct , and the reason for that is because both sides felt it to be very important .  reclaiming my time , i think we both agree on that .  the gentleman from maryland ( mr. cardin )  wanted to say something , but i wanted to say you were right on the process .  i was incorrect on the process .  it was a separate vote on a separate package , and you are right that i and the gentleman from maryland ( mr. cardin )  and others voted against it .  it was not on these provisions as you know because a change was made , not in a partisan sense , according to the gentleman from maryland ( mr. cardin )  .  reclaiming my time , mr. leader , i thank you for taking the time .  i know you did not have to , and you have been considerate of this discussion because you and i know it is an important discussion .  because it is an important discussion , i would hope that we could move forward to try to get us off this impasse that we have for whatever reasons .  and whatever is right or wrong , it needs to be resolved .  there are two suggestions here of how to resolve it .  there may be other ways to resolve it .  but i would hope that in the coming days we could move towards , in a bipartisan fashion , move towards resolving this issue .  mr. speaker , i heard the previous speaker 's comment .  this is not a bipartisan bill .  that does not mean that some democrats will not vote for it , but none of the ranking members were involved in this policy , and they are not voting for it .  mr. speaker , the united states of america needs an energy strategy that not only reduces our nation 's dependence on foreign sources of oil , but also strengthens our national security .  as a bipartisan group of 26 national security officials , including robert mcfarlane , president reagan 's national security adviser , and jim woolsey , president clinton 's cia director , recently stated in a letter to president bush : `` it should be a top national security priority of the united states to significantly reduce its consumption of foreign oil .  the united states ' dependence on imported petroleum poses a risk to our homeland security and to our economic well-being. '' yet , mr. speaker , this republican energy bill does virtually nothing to reduce our dependence on petroleum products .  in fact , at a time of record profits for the oil and gas industries , these traditional energy producers stand to reap 93 percent of the tax incentives in this bill , or $ 7.5 billion .  do we know who said they did not need it ?  the president of the united states , george w. bush said that just a day ago .  renewable energy and conservation receive only 7 percent of the resources allotted in this bill .  this bill is simply a rehash of the same policies and incentives that have made us more , not less , energy dependent .  it would provide more than $ 22 billion to the oil and gas and other energy industries in tax breaks , direct spending , and authorizations .  does anybody who is paying $ 2.50 or $ 3 at the pump think that the energy companies are hurting for dollars ?  i think not .  it would shift the costs of mtbe cleanup from manufacturers to the american taxpayers .  i think most americans do not think that is a good policy .  furthermore , the problem with it is , that is why we do not have an energy bill , because the majority leader demanded of the senate that that be in there , and the senate would not take it .  it would weaken the clean air act and , unbelievably , this republican bill would actually increase gas prices by 3 cents per gallon , according to the bush administration 's own energy department .  apparently , this republican majority believes you need to pay more for gasoline .  there is a reason that this energy bill is going nowhere fast .  it is bad policy , and it fails to address the energy needs of this great nation .  i urge my colleagues to oppose it .  madam chairman , the best way that i can characterize this bill is that it is a jurassic park bill in that it is about dinosaurs , of dinosaurs , and in a sense by dinosaurs .  it depends on the hope that somehow dead dinosaurs will appear underneath the continent of the united states where they just do not exist .  we consume 25 percent of the oil ; we have only 3 percent of the world 's oil reserves .  if you drill in mt .  ranier national park , the arctic and yosemite , the oil is not there ; the dead dinosaurs decided to die somewhere else .  this is a doomed policy of searching for dead dinosaurs .  and it is a dinosaur-like philosophy that we should decide to subsidize technology being developed in the late 1800s in 2005 .  we should be giving these subsidies to the nascent wind , solar , wave power , energy-efficient cars so we can build energy-efficient cars here rather than in japan .  you do not give mother 's milk to a 65-year-old person ; you give it to the nascent infant industries that need it .  that is not what happened to this bill , where 94 percent of the subsidy goes to an industry , the most profitable in american history ; one company had $ 8 billion profit in the third quarter last year on your $ 55 a barrel oil .  that is what is going on in this bill .  what we should be doing is hearing lessons from our successful past , where we showed where we increase the efficiency of our cars ; that is an energy future .  we need the new apollo energy plan , a visionary high-tech plan , not a dinosaur-like plan .  madam chairman , the gentleman from alaska ( mr. young )  asked a very important question : where are the technologies that we can use to avoid having to destroy the character of one of our most pristine areas in america ?  and the answer is that we have technologies today that we simply stopped using 20 years ago .  if you look at this graph , it shows the mileage of our cars that we have .  you see , starting in 1975 it went up dramatically because we had a bipartisan consensus to demand to use existing technologies to improve our automobile efficiency .  it went up dramatically , almost doubling , almost doubling by 1985 .  and then what happened ?  we fell off the wagon , and since that time , our average full economy shown by this middle line has absolutely , absolutely gone down since 1985 .  the fact of the matter is , these are not future techno dreams that someone has dreamed up in their garage somewhere ; they are technologies that exist today .  i drive a car that gets 44 miles to the gallon .  i am 62 '' , 200 pounds ; it is totally safe and comfortable .  we need to get back on the fuel efficiency wagon as we were in the 1980s on a bipartisan basis and not put a mustache on the mona lisa .  you say 2 , 000 acres ?  it is still a mustache on the mona lisa for our most pristine areas .  mr. chairman , i yield myself such time as i may consume .  i appreciate the comments of the gentleman from texas ( mr. barton )  .  we can not measure contribution by number , we have to measure by weight .  however , mr. chairman , i think you are still going to win the debate .  by the way , i am a new member of the commerce committee .  i want to thank the gentleman from texas ( mr. barton )  , the chairman , for the very fair-minded way that he handled this in committee , in giving both sides an adequate degree of leeway to argue their positions .  we all appreciate his leadership .  mr. chairman , i thank the ranking member and the chairman of the subcommittee for their work on this bill .  this is hard work .  this particular appropriations bill goes to the very heart of many of our congressional districts .  i appreciate very much the $ 4.7 billion in funding provided to the army corps of engineers , but let me express my disappointment that we have not been able to stretch the dollars to provide work on new projects .  i am speaking particularly about sims bayou , greens bayou , white oaks bayou and braes bayou .  more importantly , having worked on legislation dealing with inland flooding , i can tell you that flooding is a very serious issue in my district .  i look forward to working with this appropriations subcommittee through the coming session to be able to provide greater assistance .  might i also acknowledge my concern on the funding for nonproliferation in nuclear weapons .  while i wish we had been able to include more dollars in this area , i am pleased that we were able to increase their funding by $ 8 million over last year .  unlike previous years , due to the appropriations subcommittee reorganization , the bill funds several renewable energy programs , clean coal technology , and the strategic petroleum reserve .  such programs greatly enhance the lives and security of my constituents .  i am very pleased that the appropriations committee rejected the administration 's proposal to prioritize army corps of engineers water projects based on the projected revenue they would bring to the government .  i want to join the gentleman from texas ( mr. gene green ) as relates to our port in houston , a very important economic arm , but also an entity that needs a great deal of oversight and funding for security and also operation .  i am disappointed that the maintenance and operation funding is not as much as it should be .  i also wish there could have been added funds for new projects .  obviously , the needs of this nation change on a daily basis .  saying that this year we will not start any new projects is a bit illogical .  new projects are extremely efficient in job creation and there are many competitive projects across the nation .  one portion of the bill i am concerned about is the underfunding of the national nuclear security administration , $ 136 million less than the president 's request .  i understand that some of this withheld money would have gone to the robust nuclear earth penetrator .  i agree with the committee that we need to think long and hard before we start creating new nuclear weapons when we are pushing the rest of the world .  mr. chairman , i ask my colleagues to support this and hope that we can do something more about the yucca mountain project by not funding it , without further study and consideration of other opinions .  the people of nevada deserve no less .  mr. chairman , let me first say thanks to you and the ranking member for your work on this bill .  mr. chairman , let me raise an issue of concern for my constituents .  i appreciate very much the $ 4.7 billion in funding provided to the army corps of engineers , but let me express my disappointment that we have not been able to stretch the dollars to provide work on new projects .  i am speaking particularly about sims bayou , greens bayou , white oaks bayou and braes bayou .  more importantly , having worked on legislation dealing with inland flooding , i can tell you that flooding is a very serious issue in my district , and i would look forward to working with this appropriations subcommittee through conference to be able to provide some greater assistance .  mr. chairman , might i also acknowledge my concern on the funding for nonproliferation in nuclear weapons .  while i wish we had been able to include more dollars in this area , i am please that we were able to increase their funding by $ 8 million over last year 's levels .  i would like to commend the chairman and ranking member of the energy and water subcommittee of the appropriations committee for their excellent work on crafting this bill .  there are several elements of debate between the majority and the minority , and between the house and the administration , but in general it seems that a fair compromise has been reached .  unlike previous years , due to the appropriations subcommittee reorganization , the bill funds several renewable energy programs , clean coal technology , and the strategic petroleum reserve .  such programs greatly enhance the lives and security of my constituents .  i am very pleased that the appropriations committee rejected the administration 's proposal to prioritize army corps of engineers water projects based on the projected revenue they would bring to the government .  this prioritization plan would have essentially eliminated some , while much needed , less profitable projects .  i support the $ 4.7 billion provided for the corps , 9.5 percent more than the president 's request .  this is a smart investment .  i wish there could have been added funds for new projects .  obviously , the needs of this nation change on a daily basis .  saying that this year , we will not start any new projects is a bit illogical .  new projects are extremely efficient in job creation .  there are many competitive projects across the nation and in my district , which should have been provided for .  however , at least this bill is not a step backwards , like the administration 's request .  i commend the committee for its leadership on this issue .  one portion of the bill i am concerned about is the under-funding of the national nuclear security administration ( nnsa ) , $ 136 million less than the president 's request .  i understand that some of this withheld money would have gone to the `` robust nuclear earth penetrator. '' i agree with the committee that we need to think long and hard before we start creating new nuclear weapons , when we are pushing the rest of the world to put aside such implements of violence and destruction .  we are being accused on every front of employing double standards : as we march on in war and talk about peace in the middle east ; as we spurn our own neighbors in cuba but ask people in the occupied territories or in korea or in south asia , to forgive and forget ; as we talk about liberating people but allow tens of millions to die from hiv/aids in africa .  we do not need through my work on the science committee i have come to understand the amazing new technologies on the horizon that will decrease our reliance on foreign sources of fossil fuels , and help preserve our environment for generations to come .  it is good to see that this bill has allotted $ 3.7 billion , 6 percent more than the administration 's request for science programs .  however , of the energy research out there , hydrogen fuels and fuel cells are some of the most promising areas that need to be developed .  the science committee has encouraged strong support of these programs , and the administration also has recognized their value .  but this appropriations bill provides for less than half of what the administration has requested for hydrogen technology research .  i represent houston , the energy capital of the world .  i understand the needs again i thank the chairman and the ranking member for their work on this bill .  the lagging economy of the past 3 years , and huge deficits that have been created by our fiscal policies , have made budgets very tight .  i wish this were not the case .  but considering the box we are in , i believe our appropriators have done an admirable job here to fund important priorities and serve the nation 's energy and water needs .  yet i am very disappointed in the support for the yucca mountain nuclear waste respository at an amount of an additional $ 310 million .  the project needs more consideration and more study , there is much opposition in nevada and the people of that great state deserve better from this congress .  mr. chairman , i demand a recorded vote .  mr. chairman , i would just say , along with what the gentleman has stated for the record , there are over 140 million cars and 85 million trucks on our highways .  and today 3 , 300 , 000 of those cars and trucks all already are on our highways running on 85 percent ethanol .  if we but use our fleets in a wiser way and help transition to these new fuels , we can make a difference in the pockets of every single american and leave a better world to our children .  today , there are 187 , 000 retail locations in our country from which we purchase our fuels , but only 400 stations across 38 states sell e-85 .  i want to buy .  i just said to the head of gm , who came here to washington this week , to the auto caucus event , i said , sir , i want to buy a gm malibu powered by ethanol .  do you sell it ?  and even if i bought it , could i go to toledo and buy the fuel ?  he said , `` i do not think i have that yet. '' i said , `` can you go back to detroit and figure that one out for me ?  `` i know that the jeep liberty that is rolling off the lines in toledo today has , for the first time in u.s. history , a 5 percent biodiesel blend as original equipment , called b-5 .  someday we are going to get that up to b-20 , and the farms in ohio that surround the cities that some of us live in are going to provide that fuel .  and that money is going to be going in their pockets .  we are going to have a new fuel-based age in this nation .  i get pretty excited about this , because i have seen the future and it is in ohio , and it is in iowa , and it is in nebraska .  mr. chairman , i ask unanimous consent that we extend debate by 2 minutes on both sides .  madam chairman , i have the greatest respect for the gentleman from alaska ( mr. young )  , and i simply have a difference of opinion with him on this despite that great respect .  in what has become a congressional ritual , the prospect of drilling in the arctic has been repeatedly struck down in recognition of the fact that american working families do not want it .  still , we have proponents telling us that drilling is good for jobs .  some of the nation 's largest unions , i might point out , like the seiu , united auto workers , united steelworkers , and united farm workers , are on record opposing drilling in the arctic refuge .  why ?  because it is bad labor policy .  oil production is one of the least labor-intensive industries , supporting fewer than three direct jobs per $ 1 million of investment .  energy efficiency supports 27 jobs for the same investment .  it is also bad economic policy .  one dollar spent on petroleum production creates only $ 1.51 in economic value .  but that same dollar , when invested in energy efficiency , creates $ 2.23 in economic value .  our nation 's energy policy should not include drilling in the arctic .  mr. chairman , i rise today in opposition to h.r. 6 , the energy policy act .  i believe every member in this chamber agrees that our country faces a potential energy crisis if we do not act quickly to establish a new national energy policy .  we need to make major investments in energy self-reliance , infrastructure , and new technologies .  however , where we differ is on how best to achieve those goals .  when i look at the provisions of this bill , i do not see a clear vision for america 's future .  instead , i see a policy that promises more of the same and that does not end our nations ' dependence on foreign oil .  it astonishes me that the nation that mobilized to put an american on the moon is not leading the world in developing new , clean and renewable energy sources .  such an effort would revitalize our economy , improve our environment , and strengthen our national security .  however , this mission can be successful only with the leadership of congress and the president , and i regret that we have not pursued that goal here today .  instead , this bill clings to the incorrect assumption that our nation can drill and dig its way to energy independence .  although transportation is the largest source of oil consumption in the nation , h.r. 6 authorizes drilling in the arctic national wildlife refuge rather than making modest improvements to automobile fuel efficiency standards .  instead of investing in renewable energy sources , 93 percent of its $ 8.1 billion in energy production tax incentives are targeted toward gas , oil , and other non-renewable sources .  the measure also includes some very disturbing provisions that can damage the health and safety of our citizens .  h.r. 6 includes a liability exemption for manufacturers of mtbe , the fuel additive that has contaminated the groundwater of communities throughout the nation , including in pascoag , rhode island .  it also strips states of their ability to provide for the safety of their citizens by granting the federal energy regulatory commission almost unlimited authority in siting new liquefied natural gas facilities .  a recent study by the department of energy noted a deliberate attack on a lng tanker could result in a deadly fire reaching as far as a mile away .  nevertheless , ferc is considering an application for a lng facility in providence , in proximity to interstate 95 , schools , neighborhoods , and rhode island hospital , the only level trauma center in the state .  a broad , last week , right before the april 15th tax filing deadline , this congress passed an estate tax bill that benefited only the wealthiest one-third of one percent of americans while adding massive debt to burden future generations .  today , the day before earth day , we are considering an energy bill that provides massive tax breaks to the oil and gas industry instead of investing in cleaner renewable sources and energy efficiency .  again , congress has identified a problem and responded in a fashion contrary to the long-term interests of our nation .  i am deeply disappointed in this measure and urge my colleagues to vote against it so that we can refocus our efforts on an energy policy for america 's future .  mr. chairman , i rise in support of this bill .  i would first like to thank the chairman of the subcommittee , mr. hobson , and the ranking member , mr. visclosky , for their work in putting together the energy and water appropriations bill .  i also want to thank both of them for including $ 48 million in the bill to continue funding the port of oakland 's 50-foot dredging project in my district in california .  as the fourth largest container port in the country , the port of oakland serves as one of our premier international trade gateways to asia and the pacific .  the 50-foot dredging project will underpin an $ 800 million expansion project funded by the port that will improve infrastructure , expand capacity and increase efficiencies throughout the distribution chain .  once this project is finished , an additional 8 , 800 jobs will be added , business revenue will increase by $ 1.9 billion , and local tax revenues will go up by $ 55.5 million .  best of all , 100 percent of the dredged materials will be reused for wetlands restoration , habitat enhancement , and upland use within the san francisco bay area .  i appreciate the subcommittee 's support for this project and i look forward to continuing to work with the chairman and ranking member to complete it .  madam chairman , if ever there was a time when this country needed a smart , forward-looking energy strategy , this is it .  energy prices throughout the country are close to record highs .  consumers in my state are struggling with soaring gasoline costs .  the price of gasoline in michigan today is 36 cents a gallon higher than it was just 1 year ago .  steep increases in the price of natural gas have resulted in skyrocketing increases in consumers ' home heating bills over the past few winters .  so what is the response of the house of representatives ?  the leadership of the house has brought a bill to the floor that will do little or nothing to reign in energy prices .  this is virtually the same bill that the senate rejected 2 years ago .  according to the bush administration 's own energy information administration , the policies contained in this legislation will have a negligible effect on energy production , consumption , imports and prices .  instead of bringing us a comprehensive energy bill that brings down gas prices and encourages greater u.s. energy independence , the bill before the house is little more than a grab-bag of special interest giveaways .  for example , the tax title of this legislation contains just over $ 8 billion worth of tax incentives .  only about 6 percent of these go to energy efficiency , renewable energy or conservation .  nearly all of the $ 8 billion goes to the oil , gas and nuclear industries , as well as electric utilities .  with oil and gas prices -- to say nothing of energy industry profits -- near record levels , why are we extending these additional subsidies ?  just the other day , president bush said that `` with $ 55 oil we do n't need incentives to oil and gas companies to explore .  there are plenty of incentives. '' yet this bill is chock-full of these unneeded incentives .  there 's $ 3.3 billion in oil and gas production tax incentives , plus a number of `` royalty holiday '' provisions for energy extraction on public lands .  it 's easy to see how this legislation is good for the bottom lines of oil and gas companies , but it 's consumers that need our help today .  i know that the proponents of this legislation have been saying that opening up the arctic wildlife refuge to oil drilling will help bring down gas prices .  this simply is not the case .  we have no idea how much oil lies beneath the refuge .  the new york times reported in february that the `` major oil companies are largely uninterested in drilling in the refuge , skeptical about the potential there .  `` even the plan 's most optimistic backers agree that any oil from the refuge would meet only a tiny fraction of america 's needs. '' the crusade to drill in the refuge is a distraction .  even if there is extractable oil there , it would take nearly a decade to bring the energy to market .  this country badly needs a balanced energy policy .  we ca n't drill our way to energy security .  we need a balance between energy production , on the one hand , and greater use of renewable sources of energy and conservation on the other .  the bill before the house today does n't even pretend to seek balance , and i urge my colleagues to reject it .  madam chairman , i thank the gentleman from california ( mr. stark )  for yielding me time .  madam chairman , gas prices are going up every single day , and this bill does nothing to bring down the costs at the pump .  in fact , it might just make the problem worse .  the energy czars must be the majority leader and company , and they wrote this bill behind closed doors .  this bill is immoral .  it is a shame and it is a disgrace .  this bill was conceived in darkness and born in a den of iniquity .  this bill does not do one thing to bring down the price of gasoline at the pump .  we can do better .  we can do much better .  we should vote against this bill .  mr. chairman , i rise today in opposition to h.r. 6 .  the people of our nation need an energy policy .  we need to pass an energy policy that actually brings down record high gas prices , protects our environment , and truly reduces our dependence on foreign oil by encouraging energy efficiency and the use of renewable sources of energy .  instead , at a time of record gas prices , this special-interest , anti-consumer energy bill would actually increase gas prices .  the national average price for gasoline remains at a record level of $ 2.24 per gallon .  and yet , according to the bush administration 's own energy department , the republican bill will actually increase gas prices by 3 cents and will have almost no effect on production , consumption , or prices , as if raising gas prices were not bad enough , h.r. 6 also harms our environment .  it rolls back important safeguards in the clean water act and the safe drinking water act , which are critical in keeping our waterways clean and safe .  protecting the producers of mtbe from paying for polluting our drinking water , h.r. 6 actually passes the cost of cleaning up the industry 's mess to taxpayers .  finally , it opens the arctic national wildlife refuge , one of our nation 's greatest natural treasures , to drilling by the oil and gas industries .  at this time in history , it is crucial that we work to reduce our dependence on foreign oil by prioritizing energy efficiency and renewable energy .  of all the tax incentives in h.r. 6 , only 7 percent are designated to encourage renewable energy and conservation , while billions of dollars in tax breaks are funneled to the oil and gas industries .  on top of these tax breaks , provisions in this bill would provide as much as $ 2 billion over ten years to companies who drill in the deep waters off the gulf of mexico .  instead of increasing corporate giveaways at a time when oil and gas companies are raking in record profits , we must redouble our efforts to support renewable energy and conservation .  mr. chairman , because h.r. 6 would increase gas prices , harm our environment , and do so little to encourage renewable energy sources , i oppose this legislation and urge my colleagues to do the same .  mr. chairman , this is truly a bad bill .  every day we have pictures on the screen of consumers pulling up to the gas pump , paying an arm and a leg for gasoline .  we have 150 , 000 young men and women over in the middle east protecting our country in that region , and largely as well the oil supplies coming into our country .  this bill does nothing in order to deal with that problem .  in fact , the department of energy analysis of an almost identical bill in the last congress concluded that changes to production , consumption , imports , and prices are negligible .  the bill would open the pristine arctic national wildlife refugee to oil and natural gas exploration even though there is such a small supply of oil and gas there that most of the oil companies have pulled out of the coalition trying to open it to drilling .  this bill contains a liability waiver for the big oil companies that would force cities and states to spend billions to clean up drinking water supplies that have been contaminated with the gasoline additive mtbe which is known to cause cancer .  this bill tramples on the right of state and local governments to protect their citizens from potentially dangerous energy facilities such as large liquefied natural gas terminals that would be sited right in the middle of densely populated cities in our country , even though we know they would be the number one terrorist target constructed in that city .  this bill allows oil and gas companies to pollute drinking water by granting them special exemptions from the clean water act .  this bill allows refineries and utilities to increase air pollution with special exemptions from the clean air act .  there is a special provision in this bill to protect halliburton from ever facing any federal regulation of a practice of drilling for oil using the hydraulic fracturing technique that actually injects diesel fuel into the water supply .  there is a special provision added that authorizes grants and other assistance to something called the dine power authority , an enterprise of the navaho nation .  who are the beneficiaries of that provision ?  why do they deserve our largess ?  we never had a hearing on it .  there is a special provision in the bill that provides a $ 1.3 billion subsidy to the idaho national laboratory to build a special advance nuclear reactor to produce hydrogen for the hydrogen car .  bad bill ; vote `` no. '' mr. chairman , i rise in opposition to h.r. 6 .  i have the greatest respect and affection for the chairman of the committee , the distinguished gentleman from texas ( mr. barton ) , but i must say in all honesty that this is really a terrible energy bill .  the chairman comes from texas , and i 'm sure that from a lone star state perspective , this looks like a pretty good bill .  but most of our constituents do n't come from oil producing states .  most of our constituents are energy consumers , and from a consumer perspective this bill is seriously deficient .  in fact , i would suggest that this bill is a bit like that old clint eastwood spaghetti western : `` the good , the bad and the ugly. '' there is a tiny bit of good in the bill -- like extending daylight saving time by a month in the spring and a month in the fall .  now , that was a good idea , it really was -- and i 'm glad that the gentleman from michigan ( mr. upton ) and i were able to get it in the bill .  but in all honesty i think i have to say that for the most part , what we have here before us today is one truly bad and ugly bill : first , let 's take a look at the bad : this bill does virtually nothing to address the current spike in crude oil prices or the price of gasoline at the pump .  in fact , a department of energy analysis of an almost identical bill in the last congress concluded that `` changes to production , consumption , imports and prices are negligible. '' this bill would open the pristine arctic national wildlife refuge to oil and natural gas exploration , even though there is such a small supply of oil and gas there that most of the oil companies have pulled out of the coalition trying to open it to drilling .  this bill contains a liability waiver for the big oil companies that would force cities and states to spend billions to clean up drinking water supplies that have been contaminated with the gasoline additive mtbe , which is known to cause cancer .  this bill tramples on the right of state and local governments to protect their citizens from potentially dangerous energy facilities , such as large liquefied natural gas ( lng ) terminals sited right in the middle of densely populated urban areas .  this bill allows oil and gas companies to pollute drinking water by granting them special exemptions from the clean water act .  this bill allows refineries and utilities to increase air pollution with special exemptions from the clean air act .  this bill gives utilities who dam the public 's waterways special rights to appeal and change conditions federal resource agencies placed on their hydropower license in order to protect fish , the environmental , irrigation , navigation or other public uses of our nation 's rivers .  this bill repeals the public utility holding company act , a consumer and investor protection law that restricts utilities from self-dealing and limits their ability to diversify into risky unregulated business ventures at the expense of utility consumers .  second , let 's take a look at the just plain ugly .  there 's a special provision in this bill for home depot that preempts several states existing or proposed energy efficiency standards for ceiling fans .  there 's a special provision in here to protect halliburton from ever facing any federal regulation of the practice of drilling for oil using the hydraulic fracturing technique that actually injects diesel fuel into acquifers .  there 's the special provision added that authorizes `` grants and other assistance '' to something called `` the dine power authority , an enterprise of the navajo nation. '' who are they ?  why do they deserve our largess ?  there 's the special provision added that provides a special exemption from our nation 's nuclear nonproliferation law for a canadian company named nordion , so that they wo n't be required to ever agree to convert their nuclear reactor to using low-enriched uranium fuel and targets , but can instead continue to use bomb-grade highly enriched uranium that is a potential terrorist target .  there 's the special provision in the bill that provides a $ 1.3 billion subsidy to the idaho national laboratory to build a special advanced nuclear reactor to produce hydrogen for the hydrogen car .  this is not what a national energy policy should be -- a tiny bit of good in a sea of bad and ugly provisions .  no .  we should try to seek a fair balance between the interests of consumers and producers , between the need for new production and the preservation of our natural environment .  we should take advantage of america 's strength -- our technological superiority -- and not play to our weakness ( the fact that we control only 3 percent of the world 's oil reserves , while opec controls more than 70 percent ) .  americans own more cars than there are licensed drivers , and yet this energy bill does nothing to address the fuel efficiency of cars .  instead this bill offers up the false hope that drilling in the arctic refuge will solve our energy problems , ignoring that the united state 's 3 percent of world oil reserves will never match our 25 percent of world oil consumption .  for some fuzzy math , we would sacrifice the last great wilderness in america , an area biologically unique within the american arctic .  it did n't have to be this way .  i lived through the energy policy battles of the late it did n't have to be this way .  it really did n't .  but the republican majority that controls this congress today decided to make energy policy partisan with a bill that is extreme and over-reaching .  so i would say to my republican colleagues , you may have the votes to prevail here on the house floor this week , but this extreme bill will not become law .  democrats in this body , along with our colleagues in the senate , will fight to ensure that the bad and ugly provisions that presently make up the bulk of this bill are deleted or revised .  and if they are not , we will fight to prevent this bill from moving to the president 's desk .  i urge my colleagues to vote against this bill .  we can and must do much better .  madam chairman , i yield myself 3 minutes .  the arctic national wildlife refuge is a national treasure , a place of ancient wilderness that remains much the same as it was at the end of the last ice age .  it is one of the few places remaining in america where man has not scarred the land .  it is a place where roads do not pave the way and where the animals truly do roam free .  the refuge is home to the 130 , 000-strong porcupine caribou herd as well as polar bears , musk oxen and even more than 130 species of migratory birds .  all wildlife refuges have , by bipartisan consensus , been set aside to ensure that a few special places , natural places , will not succumb to the pressures of commercial exploitation .  the arctic refuge is one of the most unique wild and irreplaceable refuges of all .  if we allow the oil and gas drillers into this refuge , we might as well say good-bye to protection of all 544 refuges in this country .  the arctic national wildlife refuge is the crown jewel of the wildlife refuge system in the united states .  of those 544 refuges , it is estimated that 60 percent of them have the potential for oil and gas development .  overturning the 39-year precedent of never leasing a wildlife refuge to the oil companies where leases did not previously exist will set in motion a series of events that will endanger each of the other 543 refuges spread throughout the states and districts of the members of this body .  besides the wildlife refuges , drilling in the arctic refuge is widely seen as the first step in lifting the moratoria on drilling on the outer continental shelf of the atlantic and pacific coasts , specifically in florida and california .  the chairman of exxonmobil recently said that drilling in the arctic refuge is representative of the broader issue of whether drilling will be allowed in other environmentally sensitive places such as the coasts of california and florida .  in a 2003 speech to the republican caucus , house majority leader tom delay proclaimed the issue of the arctic refuge is about precedent and repeatedly referred to its symbolism .  matthew simmons , an oil industry banker and former bush adviser , recently told the new york times that if you can not do anwr , you will never be able to drill in the promising areas .  ladies and gentlemen , this is a huge test for us .  the republican majority has decided not to do anything about making suvs and automobiles more fuel efficient , and that is where 70 percent of all gasoline , all oil , goes , into those gasoline tanks .  instead of making those vehicles more efficient , what they have decided to do is to construct a gasoline station on top of the arctic wildlife refuge in order to fuel those inefficient vehicles .  we must stop them .  madam chairman , i reserve the balance of my time .  mr. chairman , may i inquire of the chair how much time is remaining .  mr. chairman , i demand a recorded vote .  madam chairman , friday is earth day , but that will not stop the republicans from passing legislation that will make the earth dirtier , more polluted and warmer .  the republican legislation favors corporate america over main street in america .  it will neither ask nor answer any of the energy issues that threaten our environment , our economy and future generations .  instead , the republicans will answer the greatest challenge of our time by telling americans to dig deeper into their pockets for big oil .  at a time when america needs energy vision , republicans have provided us with their corporate donor lists .  despite soaring prices , despite dangers to our economy and security for our dependence on oil , the administration puts forward the deal of the century for big oil , gas and coal .  it rewards its friends and encourages america 's addiction to oil .  nothing in this bill will lower gasoline prices a single penny .  nothing in this bill will alter our dependence on oil .  nothing in this bill will address the needs and concerns of the american people facing economic peril at the pump every morning when they put $ 50 worth of gas into their car .  instead , americans from maine to california will pay at the pump and pay through the nose .  big oil 's profits today defy description .  the ceo of exxonmobil who does not think global warming is real was paid $ 38 million last year .  the price of crude oil jumped $ 2 a barrel yesterday .  that added $ 1 billion of earnings to mobil 's earnings .  maybe that explains why oil and gas companies have reduced their investment in facilities by 20 percent even as their profits have increased 400 percent .  the oil and gas industry is sitting atop a mountain of cash looking down on americans who are held hostage by runaway gas prices that grow the mountain of oil prices even higher .  and we are giving them $ 7 billion more today .  they do not need it .  across the country gasoline prices are 20 percent higher than they were a year ago .  neither wages nor economic opportunities come close to bridging that kind of deficit for the american family .  the only choice for more americans is to pay more , save less , use consumer debt .  oh , yeah , remember the bankruptcy bill ?  and give up something to make the frayed ends meet , while exxonmobil 's ceo pockets $ 38 million .  with the price of crude oil sky high , you would think we would be declaring a 12-alarm economic fire that endangers the lives of every american family and the economic health of our economy .  let me quote something that sums this up .  `` we are grossly wasting our energy resources and other precious raw materials as though their supply was infinite. '' president jimmy carter spoke those words in 1976 , almost 30 years ago .  we laughed at him when he put on a sweater and said maybe we should turn the thermostat down 1 degree .  yet today americans propose a policy that seeks to roll backward from the ominous warnings of the mid-1970s .  america needs vision and leadership , but the republicans will pass a bill that endorses and rewards the traditional forms of energy .  it proposes cutting billions in promising renewable energy provisions .  it proposes waiving liability for companies that pollute our groundwater .  it subsidizes oil , gas and coal .  it fails to address meaningful automobile conservation .  and worst of all , we are going to go up to the alaska wildlife refuge and we are going to drill .  we are going to drill our way to oblivion if we follow this pattern .  mr. speaker , i make a point of order .  mr. speaker , pursuant to section 426 on the congressional budget act of 1974 , i make a point of order against consideration of the rule , h. res. 219 .  page 1 , line 7 , through page 2 , line 1 , of h. res. 219 states , `` all points of order against consideration of the bill are waived. '' the rule makes in order h.r. 6 , the energy policy act of 2005 , which contains a large unfunded mandate on state and local governments in violation of section 425 of the budget act .  section 426 of the budget act specifically states that the committee on rules may not waive section 425 , and therefore this rule violates section 426 .  mr. speaker , i yield myself such time as i may consume .  mr. speaker , back in 1995 , my republican colleagues , the so-called champions of states ' rights , led the fight to pass the unfunded mandates reform act , a bill they claimed would stop the federal government from imposing the costs of federally mandated programs on states and localities .  well , here we are 10 years later and the tables have turned .  my republican colleagues are bringing a bill to the floor that imposes a multibillion dollar unfunded mandate on communities around the country whose water supplies have been tainted by the fuel additive mtbe .  this additive , a known brown water contaminant used by oil companies for nearly two decades , has seeped into our nation 's water supply .  in all , mtbe has been detected in over 1 , 800 water systems , which serve 45 million americans .  this is the water that our constituents , our communities and our families use , and it has been contaminated with a potential human carcinogen .  despite knowing all of this , the republican leadership has no reservations about shielding oil companies from any liability to the damages caused by mtbe .  and then if that were not bad enough , they have included a nearly $ 2 billion bailout for these same companies .  so while communities will be left to cover the overwhelming costs of cleanup , not only will these oil companies get a free pass , but they will also get another kickback at the expense of taxpayers .  here the republican leadership is once again weighing the interests of big oil above the health and safety of our communities .  specifically , section 1502 of the energy bill we are talking about today creates a safe harbor for mtbe manufacturers against lawsuits that attempt to hold them accountable for the damage their product has wrought on the water supplies of communities all over the country .  as the letter the congressional budget office sent to the gentleman from california ( chairman dreier ) yesterday explains , while the bill creates a safe harbor for the mtbe manufacturers , it sticks our state and local governments with a bill that could be as large as $ 29 billion .  during these bad economic times , how many states and local communities can afford that ?  by blocking the claims of local governments against the mtbe manufacturers , this bill will force communities to come up with hundreds of millions of dollars to clean up their water .  cbo concludes that the annual cost of this mandate over the next 5 years is likely to exceed $ 62 million , which accordingly triggers the unfunded mandate law republicans so proudly backed in 1995 .  the fact is that the rule waives all points of order against the bill .  the budget act specifically says that the committee on rules can not waive points of order against unfunded mandates , yet the republican leadership blatantly ignores this .  mr. speaker , the house can either choose to consider this bill in spite of the bill 's unfunded mandate , or it can send this bill back to committee and strike the mtbe section from the bill , eliminating the violation of this point of order .  at the end of this debate , therefore , i will call for a vote on a motion to continue consideration or fix this problem .  mr. speaker , i reserve the balance of my time .  mr. speaker , let me respond to my colleague , the gentleman from texas ( mr. barton )  , and simply say this is an unfunded mandate .  the cbo says so .  here is the letter we received yesterday , and it says very clearly that this is an unfunded mandate .  i know my colleagues all have great confidence in the cbo .  my colleague , the gentleman from texas ( mr. sessions )  , made the following statement on cbo just a few months ago .  he said , the congressional budget office is a professional organization that assists the united states congress in knowing in a nonpartisan way those impacts on the laws that we pass .  well , here it is in black and white .  cbo says this is an unfunded mandate , and people need to understand that if they do not vote for what we are saying here today , they are supporting an unfunded mandate .  u.s. congress , congressional budget office , washington , dc , april 19 , 2005 .  dear mr .  chairman : based on a preliminary review of h.r. 6 , the energy policy act of 2005 , as introduced in the house of representatives on april 18 , 2005 , cbo estimates that enacting this legislation would reduce direct spending by $ 1.1 billion over the 2006-2010 period and by $ 0.4 billion over the 2006-2015 period .  cbo and the joint committee on taxation estimate that the legislation would reduce revenues by $ 4.0 billion over the 2006-2010 period and by $ 7.9 billion over the 2006-2015 period .  the estimated direct spending and revenue effects are summarized below .  a table with additional details is attached .  implementing this legislation also would affect spending subject to appropriation action , but cbo has not completed an estimate of the potential discretionary costs .  h.r. 6 contains numerous mandates as defined in the unfunded mandates reform act ( umra ) that would affect both intergovernmental and private-sector entities .  based on our review of the bill , cbo expects that the mandates ( new requirements , limits on existing rights , and preemptions ) contained in the bill 's titles on motor fuels ( title xv ) , nuclear energy ( title vi ) , electricity ( title xii ) and energy efficiency ( title i ) would have the greatest impact on state and local governments and private-sector entities .  cbo estimates that the cost of complying with intergovernmental mandates , in aggregate , could be significant and likely would exceed the threshold established in umra ( $ 62 million in 2005 , adjusted annually for inflation ) at some point over the next five years because we expect that future damage awards for state and local governments under the bill 's safe harbor provision ( title xi ) would likely be reduced .  as explained below , that provision would shield the motor fuels industry from liability under certain conditions .  section 1502 would shield manufacturers of motor fuels and other persons from liability for claims based on defective product relating to motor vehicle fuel containing methyl tertiary butyl ether or renewable fuel .  that protection would be in effect as long as the fuel is in compliance with other applicable federal requirements .  the provision would impose both an intergovernmental and private-sector mandate as it would limit existing rights to seek compensation under current law .  ( the provision would not affect other causes of action such as nuisance or negligence. ) under current law , plaintiffs in existing and future cases may stand to receive significant amounts in damage awards , based , at least in part , on claims of defective product .  because section 1502 would apply to all such claims filed on or after september 5 , 2003 , it would affect more than 100 existing claims filed by local communities , states , and some private companies against oil companies .  individual judgments and settlements for similar lawsuits over the past several years have ranged from several million dollars to well over $ 100 million .  based on the size of damages already awarded and on information from industry experts , cbo anticipates that precluding existing and future claims based on defective product would reduce the size of judgments in favor of state and local governments over the next five cbo can not determine whether the aggregate cost of the private-sector mandates in the bill would exceed the threshold established in umra primarily for two reasons .  first , some of the requirements established by the bill would hinge on future regulatory action for which information is not available .  second , umra does not specify whether cbo should measure the cost of extending a mandate relative to the mandate 's current costs or assume that the mandate will expire and measure the costs of the mandate 's extension as if the requirement were new .  the bill would extend the existing mandate that requires licensees to pay fees to offset roughly 90 percent of the nuclear regulatory commission 's annual appropriation .  measures against the costs that would be incurred if current law remains in place , the cost to the private sector of extending this mandate would exceed the annual threshold established in umra ( $ 123 million in 2005 , adjusted annually for inflation ) .  if you wish further details on this estimate , we will be pleased to provide them .  the cbo staff contacts are lisa cash driskill , ( for federal costs ) , who can be reached at 226-2860 , theresa gullo ( for intergovernmental mandates ) , who can be reached at 225-3220 , and patrice gordon ( for private-sector mandates ) , who can be reached at 226-2940 .  sincerely , douglas holtz-eakin , attachment .  may i ask the gentleman from texas how many other speakers he has .  mr. speaker , how much time remains on both sides ?  mr. chairman , i rise in strong opposition to this imbalanced energy bill , which allows big energy companies to exploit our natural resources at the expense of u.s. taxpayers .  the bill would repeal the public utilities holding companies act -- puhca -- which prevents big energy firms , like enron , from driving smaller utilities out of business and monopolizing the energy market .  the bill includes a safe-harbor provision for mtbe manufacturers even though the chemical has been detected polluting groundwater sources across the nation , including in massachusetts .  the bill 's authors included a variety of special-interest favors for oil and gas production despite the fact that producers are already reaping profits from record high energy prices .  and yet president bush himself admitted that it will do nothing to lower the price that consumers pay for gas at the pump .  and the bill would open the door to oil and gas exploration in the arctic national wildlife refuge , a pristine habitat that would yield less than three-tenths of a percent of world oil production by 2015 .  the california energy crisis and today 's high fuel demands are evidence that the nation needs an energy strategy that is focused on clean energy technologies and energy independence .  the united states needs to become less reliant on foreign energy sources .  we can not drill our way to independence .  the only effective strategy will balance increased fuel efficiency with renewable energy technologies .  instead of using the technology we already have and could achieve to increase the fuel economy of new fleets of vehicles , the bill does little more than order a study .  unfortunately , this bill will only worsen our nation 's dependence on fossil fuels imported from the middle east .  at current production levels the u.s. supply of oil will only last another 20 years , while the oil supply in saudi arabia is estimated to last another 75 years .  our reliance on saudi oil is harmful to our environment and our values .  fossil fuels like oil and coal provide the vast majority of energy for the united states .  that was unlikely to change for the near future no matter what bill we had a chance to vote on .  unfortunately , this bill does little to put this nation on a path to greater energy independence .  this bill does not represent a national energy policy -- it is 1000 pages of shameless special interest giveaways .  i urge its defeat .  mr. speaker , i thank the gentleman for yielding me time , and i rise in strong support of this point of order .  simply saying in the legislation that this is not an unfunded mandate does not make the fact that it is not an unfunded mandate .  failure to provide the resources by which the directed activity is required under the law is what makes it an unfunded mandate .  we have communities throughout california that have had environmental and economic havoc wreaked upon them from the use of mtbe , in many instances , as the gentlewoman from california ( mrs. capps )  pointed out , after the knowledge was available and was continued to pursue the use of this compound as an additive to the fuels of our automobiles .  those communities now are stuck with the costs of either cleaning up that drinking water supply , finding an alternative source and dealing with it , and they must do so .  to suggest now that we are going to provide a safe harbor , that we are going to restrict the liability or prohibit the liability from those who knew of the dangers of this to our environment , to our drinking water supplies , to our citizens , and on the other hand , we are going to direct communities to clean this up when , in fact , the resources will not be available to do that , they are not there at the local level , and they are not forthcoming from the united states .  mtbe is just another way in which this congress , this republican leadership , wants to corrupt the process by which these communities can be made whole .  they want to corrupt the process by which these companies can be protected from the liability that they assumed when they knowingly did that .  it is just a continued process of corruption of the process of this congress that we can not deal with this straight up .  madam chairman , i thank the gentleman for yielding me this time .  this bill , first and foremost , should be rejected by this congress , because it is very bad for the consumers , it is a very bad deal for the taxpayers , it is lousy for the environment , and it certainly does not do much for the american economy .  this bill is another missed opportunity to take america into the future , to take america into the leadership around the world in energy production , energy innovation , and energy technology ; to create a new generation of important products , and a new generation of jobs .  but what this bill does not understand is that energy sufficiency and sustainability is very different from energy oil independence .  the first is achievable in the national interest and the other is not .  oil independence is not achievable in this bill or in any bill you can bring to the floor .  if we were really seeking to strengthen america 's hand with respect to energy and our economy , we would do all that is possible to develop a national sustainable energy policy that would minimize our dependence on foreign oil .  that is not this bill .  rather than placing too much of our emphasis on new oil supplies , we would build a national energy policy that is based upon the strength of our country , rather than its weaknesses .  those strengths are the marketplace , innovation , technology , and capital .  if these economic forces were truly unleashed to provide a national energy policy , the role of coal and oil would be greatly diminished and would still be important , but diminished .  america 's energy policy would evolve into one where business decisions , capital allocations , research commitments , and environmental policy would coincide to make businesses more efficient and productive , develop new products and services , would expand and cover the environment , would be easier and less expensive and clean .  such a policy demands a synergy of most parts of national energy policy .  to date , these ideas have been treated as a stepchild , as they are in this bill .  to do so , the congress would have to stop thinking about energy policy as an extension of the past .  they would have to think about it as going out to embrace the future , with american technology , american ingenuity , american talent , american capital , and the american marketplace .  america should go out and embrace the future , rather than dumping billions and billions of dollars into trying to bring the past a little bit further forward , to bring the fossil fuels a little bit further forward .  that is the mistake of this bill , that is the tragedy of this bill , and that is the missed opportunity .  that is the reason why this bill does so little for the consumer .  in fact , it harms the consumer at the pump by increasing the price of gasoline .  that is why it is such a bad deal for the taxpayer , because the taxes are used for old production , for old ideas , not for innovation , not for the future , and not for a sustainable energy policy .  that is why it is so bad for the environment , because they use tax policy to drive environmental decisions that otherwise would not be made and , of course , that is why it is bad for the economy , because it continues our dependence .  in fact , it drives us deeper into the dependence on the most unstable countries in the world , into the hands of those countries that simply can not provide stable environments for the production of those energy resources .  that is why a different policy would be about a sustainable energy policy , not trying to achieve oil independence , or foreign oil independence as this bill does .  it is unfortunate , because what we do is we miss the opportunity to bring about what the best and the brightest prospects of america have always offered , and that is new innovation , new technologies , new discoveries , new capital formation , and a new economy .  but this bill does not do it .  this bill resides in the past century .  this bill resides with the old industries .  this bill resides with the old ideas , and it certainly resides with the old and tired subsidies that milk the taxpayers , to turn around and give them to now the most profitable companies in the american economy at this time .  it is very unfortunate , and it should be rejected .  mr. chairman , i thank the gentlewoman for yielding me time .  i could well envision a procedure that would require the epa to coordinate in a consultative process with the department of energy to resolve environmental issues , but the crafters of this bill have i would say knowing the gentleman from texas not intentionally but unintentionally overreached .  they extend this authority for the secretary of department of energy to overturn a range of federal laws .  the corps of engineers regulates activities that would have adverse effect on navigable waters of the united states .  private parties could locate wharves , docks , other structures in the water that would obstruct commerce ; but the corps of engineers has permitting authority that says , no , you can not do that .  with this language , the secretary of energy could throw out a century of regulatory authority , for example , in the case where a refinery has been denied a permit to build a structure in a navigable waterway .  the applicant would appeal to the secretary of energy who would just simply overturn the corps .  refineries often are not located near navigable waterways to facilitate barge traffic .  if the corps said , no , you are going to do something that is going to obstruct navigation , the secretary of energy could overturn the corps .  i do not think that is intended , and this authority goes even further to faa and other agencies under the jurisdiction of our committee .  it should be defeated .  mr. chairman , as members of this house know , when i have objections to the content of a bill , i am not shy in stating them .  there are certainly portions of this bill with which i do not agree , but i want to say that it is very unusual and it is a very pleasant experience to see a piece of legislation brought to the floor which is not so much a product of politics as it is a product of legislative craftsmanship .  i think that is the case with this bill .  i think that the gentleman from ohio and the gentleman from indiana working together in an absolutely bipartisan fashion have produced a bill which is obviously based on some intellectual decisions about how to approach problems rather than being based simply on political judgments , and that means that this place is performing as it should perform .  it is not just being a political institution ; it is also being a legislative institution .  that is happening in no small measure because of the leadership of the gentleman from ohio ( mr. hobson )  .  that does not mean that i do not think this bill does not fall short in some areas .  i think that the budget resolution has made it impossible for this committee to do a number of things that it ought to be doing in the area of energy research .  lord knows , that is important these days with rising gas prices and all of the rest ; but i just want to say in my view , despite those shortcomings , this bill demonstrates that good government is good politics .  the gentleman has brought to the floor a bill which is extremely responsible in terms of the way it deals with the nuclear weapons issues that were referenced by the gentleman from indiana .  it is an extremely bipartisan product .  while i have feelings about nuclear power that are very different than some other members in this chamber , i want to say i think the gentleman has produced , with the assistance of the gentleman from indiana , a very responsible bill ; and i fully intend to support it .  i hope as the process goes along we will wind up having more resources to deal with some of the problems that are shortchanged .  but with that exception , i do not think we can ask for a better legislative product ; and as someone who appreciates the traditions of this house , i want to extend my personal gratitude to the gentleman from ohio for his contribution in making this the fine product that it is .  mr. chairman , as a member of the appropriations committee , i rise in support of the fiscal year 2006 energy and water bill .  i want to thank chairman hobson and ranking member visclosky for their hard work in drafting this bill .  i also want to acknowledge both the majority and minority staff for their dedication .  i can appreciate the tough choices that both chairman hobson and ranking member visclosky had to make with the tight allocation for this bill .  i believe they have made choices with the best interests of improving u.s. water infrastructure and advancing energy programs in mind .  those decisions were not easy , but this bill is the best we can do under the budget constraints .  i urge all of my colleagues to vote in favor of the fy 2006 energy and water appropriations act .  mr. chairman , i yield myself such time as i may consume .  i thank the gentleman very much for his support .  i appreciate that .  and if it is all right with the chairman , i will inundate him with that information between now and then .  mr. chairman , on rollcall no .  117 , had i been present , i would have voted `` aye . '' mr. chairman , today i rise in opposition to the energy bill .  the bill limits states ' rights to protect their water supplies and protect their air quality , risks the public health of our working families , and leaves our states to pick up the tab for contamination .  first , the bill puts important groundwater supplies at risk by allowing diesel fuel and other contaminants to be injected into the ground with no oversight by epa .  second , supporters of the bill refuse to take steps to prevent leaks into the groundwater from underground storage tanks by rejecting attempts to require new replacement storage tanks near drinking water wells or sensitive areas to be secondarily contained .  third , the bill would make states weaken programs to prevent leaks during fuel delivery or risk losing federal cleanup funds .  finally , the language unnecessarily targets poor and underserved communities for the unrestricted siting of new refineries .  together , all these actions are environmental and public health injustices .  while the bill benefits corporate america , it leaves communities like mine with more contaminated groundwater , increases the cost of cleanup borne by taxpayers and water providers , and increases the risks to public health for all americans .  mr. chairman , i would like to inquire how much time is remaining .  mr. chairman , i demand a recorded vote .  madam chairman , i yield myself such time as i may consume .  madam chairman , i rise in opposition to this bill .  first of all , it is improperly titled .  it is not an energy policy act at all ; it is the delay bill .  now , why is it the delay bill ?  well , it is a bill that delays energy self-sufficiency by enacting tax breaks and policies that benefit the oil and gas industry and ignores renewable alternatives .  it delays protecting the arctic national wildlife refuge .  it delays holding the makers of mtbe accountable for destroying drinking water .  it delays the end of $ 8 billion in special interest tax breaks .  it delays fishery restoration by giving dam owners free rein .  it delays protecting our children who suffer more and more from asthma as this bill delays enactment of stricter smog regulations .  it delays protecting our shorelines from oil and gas development .  it delays cleaner air and lower gas prices by mandating an agricultural welfare program called ethanol .  it delays the end of corporate welfare for the likes of enron and home depot .  it delays the ability of states to enact tougher energy efficiency laws .  i could keep going , madam chairman , but i do not want to delay the proceedings any further .  the bill was written by and for the oil and gas industry with the involvement of a small band of powerful members of congress .  its very existence raises questions of ethical behavior .  but as we know , our committee on standards of official conduct is unable to meet to consider such transgressions because of delay by my colleagues on the republican side of the aisle which delay committee on standards of official conduct action against one of their own .  the purpose is not to enact a sane energy policy for our country at all .  in fact , as i have outlined above , it delays that very possibility .  it is an antienvironment , anticonsumer , antienergy self-sufficiency and irresponsible corporate welfare bill .  rather than considering this legislation , we should be considering why `` delay '' continues to rule the house of representatives .  madam chairman , i reserve the balance of my time .  mr. chairman , this bill is not perfect .  but it provides appropriate funding for many important purposes , and i will vote for it .  subcommittee chairman hobson , ranking member visclosky , and their colleagues on the appropriations committee deserve our thanks for their work on this legislation .  their task was made harder by the restrictions imposed by the budget resolution championed by the republican leadership , and the bill does not include some things that i think should have been funded .  but i think they have done a good job with the allocation of funds available to them , and the bill does include some items of particular importance to coloradans .  in particular , i am very pleased that it will provide nearly $ 580 million to continue -- and , i hope , complete -- the cleanup of rocky flats .  formed by the location of a facility for making key parts of nuclear weapons , the rocky flats site is located just 15 miles from downtown denver and at one time was the location of large quantities of nuclear materials and other hazardous substances .  because of its proximity to our state 's major metropolitan area , timely and effective cleanup and closure of the site has been a matter of top priority for all coloradans .  with the funding provided by this bill and barring unforeseen developments , the department of energy and its contractor , kaiser-hill , should be able to complete the cleanup in the coming months -- and while the department will have ongoing responsibilities at rocky flats , completing the cleanup will enable it to focus even more intently on the cleanup work to be done at other sites .  so , i strongly support this part of the bill .  however , while we are taking care of the site , it is essential that we also take care of those who worked there .  some of them were made sick because of exposure to beryllium , radiation , or other hazards .  it was because of them , and those like them who worked at other sites , that i worked with our colleagues from kentucky and ohio , mr. whitfield and mr. strickland , as well as others in both the house and senate , and with secretary of energy bill richardson and his colleagues in the clinton administration , to pass the energy employees occupational illness compensation program act ( eeoicpa ) .  i am proud to have been able to help get this program enacted and i will continue working to improve it for those who have worked at rocky flats and other sites .  and , we need to also remember the other workers at rocky flats as well .  as they near the completion of their jobs at the site , they are understandably concerned about what will come next .  many have moved on to other jobs , and others will do so .  but many are facing uncertainties about their futures .  for all of them , it is essential that doe acts promptly to resolve remaining questions about the futures they can expect when their work at rocky flats is finished .  for that reason , i recently wrote to ask secretary bodman to give immediate attention to two important matters -- ( 1 ) determining the future administration of pension and health insurance plans for rocky flats workers ( and for those at other closure sites as well ) ; and ( 2 ) assuring the continued availability of medical benefits for rocky flats workers who will not be eligible for full retirement at the time of the site 's closure .  i pointed out that doe 's office of legacy management ( lm ) has stated that it is developing a plan for the transition of pension and insurance plans , as well as for record keeping and other matters for which lm is responsible .  however , i also noted that no such plan yet exists , which means there is increasing concern among the rocky flats workers about their future .  there now remain only a few months for these matters to be resolved prior to closure .  time is of the essence .  so , i was very glad to note that the committee report accompanying this bill directs doe to report by september 30 , 2005 , on the department 's plan for a national stewardship contract for administration of the pension and benefit payments to former environmental management closure site contractor employees .  i applaud the committee for including this directive , and urge the administration to complete and submit this report as soon as possible .  the bill also includes other matters of particular importance for colorado .  it provides funding for several bureau of reclamation projects in our state , including the colorado-big thompson project and the fryingpan-arkansas project as well as the ongoing construction of the animas-la plata project .  it also includes needed funds for operation and maintenance of a number of reservoirs operated by the army 's corps of engineers as well as for other corps activities in colorado .  and i am very glad to note that the bill will provide funds for completing construction of the new science and technology facility at the national renewable energy laboratory .  i am disappointed , however , that the bill shortchanges some of the important clean energy programs at nrel .  as co-chair of the renewable energy and energy efficiency caucus in the house , i have worked for years to increase -- or at a minimum , hold steady -- funding for doe 's renewable energy and energy efficiency research and development programs .  given the finite supply and high prices of fossil fuels and increasing global demand , investing in clean energy is more important than ever .  doe 's renewable energy programs are vital to our nation 's interests , helping provide strategies and tools to address the environmental challenges we will face in the coming decades .  these programs are also helping to reduce our reliance on oil imports , thereby strengthening our national security , and also creating hundreds of new domestic businesses , supporting thousands of american jobs , and opening new international markets for american goods and services .  for our investment in these technologies to payoff , our efforts must be sustained over the long term .  this bill does not do that .  this bill is $ 23 million less than last year 's bill in the area of renewable energy research .  this includes cuts in biomass , geothermal , and solar energy programs .  i believe that the reductions in funding levels for the core renewable energy programs are ill-advised at a time when the need for a secure , domestic energy supply is so crucial .  i am also concerned about the bill 's deep cuts to energy efficiency programs such as industrial technologies ( $ 16 million ) and state energy program grants ( nearly $ 4 million ) and a cut of nearly $ 5 million in the distributed energy and electricity reliability program .  nonetheless , mr. chairman , my regrets about this bill are outweighed by my appreciation for the good things that it includes , and so i urge the house to pass this important appropriations bill .  mr. chairman , the congressional research service was specifically asked the question , and there is absolutely no doubt .  i read it into the record .  it is there .  mr. chairman , i demand a recorded vote .  mr. chairman , i yield myself such time as i may consume , and i want to pick up where my chairman , the gentleman from ohio ( mr. hobson )  , left off and also personally thank the staff , because without their able assistance , we would not be here today and the product before this chamber would not be of the quality that it is .  so i do want to personally thank terry tyborowski and tracy laturner of the majority staff , as well as john blazey , scott burnison , and kevin cook .  on the minority side , although again , as the chairman pointed out , this was a bipartisan effort , dixon butler .  we have core detailees : felicia kirksey and taunja berquam , and i appreciate very much their help , as well as kenny kraft from the chairman 's office , and peder moorbjerg from mine .  mr. chairman , i would want to thank chairman hobson , first of all , for his very good work ; as i mentioned in subcommittee and full committee , his fairness , his judicious temperament , the fact that he is a gentleman , and also that he has exercised a great deal of foresight and leadership over the last 3 years as chairman of the subcommittee .  i certainly feel that the chairman has outlined the elements of the value of the legislation before us very fairly .  i would prefer to take somewhat of a different tack , this being my seventh bill as a ranking member , and illustratively point out the three areas of the bill where over the last 3 years the chairman has had a direction , he has exercised leadership and courage , and has provided us with an excellent work product .  the first area is the area of high-performance computing , an area where the united states invented the field and long held undisputed leadership in the world .  several years ago , however , that leadership was challenged .  in the house bill for fiscal year 2004 , the committee recommended an increase in funding to enable the department of energy to acquire additional advanced computing capability and to initiate longer-term research and development .  the department used $ 25 million of these funds to engage a team , including oak ridge national lab and cray computer , to pursue a leadership-class supercomputer and the next-generation computer architectures .  despite being faced with budget constraints , the department of energy office of science sustained this increase in 2005 .  however , pursuing a $ 100 million-plus leadership-class machine with level funding was not going to put us back in the lead .  so , once again , the committee recommended an increase to the request to support the office of science initiative to develop the hardware , software , and applied mathematics necessary for a leadership-class supercomputer to meet scientific computational needs .  this year , the president 's request for fiscal year 2006 pulled back from the strong support favored by the congress , and such a cutback would tend to undermine the progress towards actually achieving a leadership-class u.s. supercomputer .  so the recommendation before us today increases funding for advanced scientific computing research by $ 39 million : $ 25 million for hardware , $ 5 million for computational research , and $ 9 million for competitive university grants to restore the ongoing level of core research in this area that the president 's budget recommendation cut .  by taking the long-term perspective of the last 3 years and sustaining support for a highly desirable outcome , the chairman and the committee and all of its members are doing their part to ensure that the u.s. reasserts its technological leadership .  the second area that has been a subject of concern for a number of years , in an area where we reduced funding , is laboratory directed research and development .  it is an area that grew out of all proportion to its value at the beginning of this decade .  this area also raised concerns of financial oversight and the use of federal funds for purposes for which it was not appropriated .  as an initial effort to get its arms around this program , which reached an aggregate funding level in fiscal year 2003 of $ 365 million , the committee mandated a comprehensive report on projects from the department of energy and initiated a gao investigation .  in developing recommendations for last year 's bill , the committee based its guidance and statement of concerns on the results of those investigations and reports .  this year , the president 's budget , recognizing the concerns of the committee and the constraints on funding , reduced the percentage allowed for lab-directed research at weapons labs from 6 percent to 5 percent .  the committee today is recommending that lab-directed research be limited explicitly to $ 250 million for 2006 , to be allocated to the labs by the department of energy .  a quarter billion dollars is a healthy level of funding that could be used to fix many problems in energy research and water infrastructure , to name but two .  as we state in the report , the committee recognizes the value of conducting discretionary research at the national laboratories , but we have now brought the funding level to this research back within reason and given it a sense of direction .  and my last illustration , if you would , of a sense of direction that we have had over the last 3 years is in the area of nuclear weapons .  it is the most sensitive area of activities under the energy and water development appropriations .  here , under chairman hobson 's courageous leadership , denial of funding has been effectively used to chart a safer and more efficient course for the future of our nuclear deterrents .  in particular , coming into fiscal year 2004 appropriations , the president was asking for funds for a robust nuclear earth penetrator , for studies of new nuclear weapons potentially for new missions , for funds to proceed with the preparation of a modern pit facility to manufacture 450 plutonium triggers , and a shift to an 18-month readiness posture for a return to underground nuclear testing .  taken together , these policy initiatives signaled a shift in nuclear weapons policy .  in 2004 , the committee , among other things , reduced funding for the robust nuclear earth penetrator to $ 5 million from $ 15 million , ultimately agreeing to $ 7.5 million in conference ; zeroed out funds for proceeding with the modern pit facility ; and held the test readiness posture at 24 months .  most significantly , in 2004 , $ 4 million of the funds for advanced weapons concepts were fenced so that they could not be spent until the administration delivered a nuclear weapons stockpile plan .  without this action , there is no doubt that the plan would not exist .  today , it does .  in fiscal year 2005 , the committee went further and zeroed funding for the earth penetrator , while maintaining a 24-month test readiness posture .  the committee has taken a constructive approach in trying to positively influence better policies .  at the insistence of the committee , reasonable new approaches have been funded , including a reliable replacement warhead .  in this year 's bill , the committee is solidifying the progress made last year and in the previous year .  first , advanced concepts was missing from the president 's request and is essentially no longer under consideration .  secondly , the earth penetrator funding is again zero in the committee recommendation , and third , test readiness posture is held to 24 months .  finally , the reliable replacement warhead concept was included in the president 's request .  the committee is working to accelerate the implicit transformation of the newest nuclear deterrent stockpile by increasing funds to $ 25 million , while slowing programs extending the life of old weapons .  essentially , in this bill as well , mr. chairman , we are taking an advanced look .  we have called for the army corps of engineers , the bureau of reclamation , as well as the department of energy to undertake 5-year plans in programs .  this is an exceptional piece of legislation , and i would ask my colleagues to support it .  i recommend that all members join me in supporting this bill .  its preparation has been bipartisan and the chairman has been fair throughout its preparation .  i would add my appreciation to the staff led on the majority side by kevin cook .  he is joined by terry tyborowski , john blazey , scott burnison , and tracy laturner .  they are a strong team .  on the minority staff , i would thank dixon butler .  this year we have two fine detailees from the army corps : taunja berquam helping the majority and felicia kirksey helping the minority .  i would also thank kenny kraft on chairman hobson 's staff and peder maarbjerg on my staff .  this is my seventh year as ranking member on the energy and water development appropriations subcommittee .  in a few professions in our society seventh years are sabbaticals and times for reflection .  in the congress , we ca n't take a year off , but i feel compelled to reflect .  during my years on this committee it has been my privilege to serve with five subcommittee chairmen , and now , it has been my pleasure to serve with dave hobson for three years .  during this time , chairman hobson has led our subcommittee to take a long-term perspective on a number of important issues and this is resulting in some profound and positive changes .  here are three examples .  high performance computing is an area where the united states invented the field and long held undisputed leadership in the world .  several years ago , that leadership was challenged by japan with their development of the earth simulator .  in the house bill for fy 2004 , the committee recommended an increase of $ 40 million to enable doe to `` acquire additional advanced computing capability .  ...  and to initiate longer-term research and development on next generation computer architectures. '' ultimately , despite being faced with budget constraints , the doe office of science sustained this increase in the president 's fy 2005 budget .  however , pursuing a $ 100 million plus leadership-class machine with level funding of $ 25 million per year will never put the united states back in the lead .  so once again , the committee recommended an increase of $ 30 million to the request `` to support the office of science initiative to develop the hardware , software , and applied mathematics necessary for a leadership-class supercomputer to meet scientific computation needs. '' it must be noted that the committee insisted that at least $ 5 million of this increase be reserved for computational research and not allow additional funds to go to hardware alone .  in the face of an even more constrained funding environment , the president 's request for fy 2006 pulled back from the strong support favored by the congress .  such a cutback , if sustained , would tend to undermine the progress toward actually achieving a leadership-class us supercomputer .  so , the recommendation before us today increases funding for advanced scientific computing research by $ 39 million -- $ 25 million for hardware , $ 5 million for computational research , and $ 9 million for competitive university grants to restore the on-going level of core research in this area that the president 's budget recommended for cuts .  by taking the long-term perspective and sustaining support for a highly desirable outcome , the committee is doing its part to ensure that the u.s. reasserts it technological leadership in the area of supercomputing -- a technical capability that underpins our ability to invent the future .  laboratory directed research and development ( ldrd ) is an area that grew out of all proportion to its value at the beginning of this decade .  this area also raised concerns of financial oversight and the use of federal funds for purposes for which it was not appropriated .  as an initial effort to get its arms around this program , which reached an aggregate funding level in fy 2003 of $ 365 million per year , the committee mandated a comprehensive report on ldrd projects from doe and initiated a gao investigation of ldrd .  in developing its recommendations for fy 2005 , the committee based its guidance and statement of concerns on the results of the gao investigation and what had been learned from reviewing the extensive doe reports .  the fy 2005 committee report directs doe to shift to direct requests for ldrd .  the president 's budget request for fy 2006 , recognizing the concerns of the committee and the constraints on funding , reduced the percentage allowed for ldrd at weapons labs from 6 % to 5 % .  the committee is today recommending that ldrd be limited explicitly to $ 250 million in fy 2006 , to be allocated to the labs by doe .  a quarter billion dollars is a healthy level of funding that could be used to fix many problems in energy research , water infrastructure , etc. , so the `` committee [ truly ] recognizes the value of conducting discretionary research at doe 's national laboratories '' , but has now brought the funding level for this research back within reason and given it a sense of direction .  nuclear weapons is the most sensitive area of activity under the energy and water development appropriation .  here , under chairman hobson 's courageous leadership , the denial of funding has been effectively used to chart a safer and more efficient course for the future of our nuclear deterrent .  in particular , coming into the fy 2004 appropriations process , the president was asking for funds for a robust nuclear earth penetrator ( rnep ) , for studies of new nuclear weapons potentially for new missions , for funds to proceed with preparation of a modern pit facility to manufacture 450 plutonium triggers per year , and a shift to an i8-month readiness posture for a return to underground nuclear testing .  taken together , these policy initiatives signaled the house report accompanying the fy 2004 energy and water appropriations bill states , `` the fiscal year 2004 budget request is the second budget request delivered to the committee that is loosely justified on the requirements of the nuclear posture review policy document but lacking a formal plan that specifies the changes to the stockpile reflecting the president 's decision [ on the nuclear weapons stockpile plan ] . '' the committee reduced funding for the rnep to $ 5 million from $ 15 million ( ultimately agreeing to $ 7.5 million in conference ) , zeroed funds for proceeding with a modern pit facility , and held the test readiness posture at 24 months .  most significantly , $ 4 million of the funds for advanced weapons concepts were fenced so that they could not be spent until the administration delivered a nuclear weapons stockpile plan .  without this action , there is doubt that this plan would yet exist .  in fy 2005 , the committee went further and zeroed funding for the rnep while maintaining the 24-month test readiness posture and continuing to defer the modern pit facility .  but , the committee is a constructive influence and seeks to support better policies .  at the insistence of the committee , the dangerous advanced concepts approach was scrapped and a reasonable new approach was funded -- the reliable replacement warhead ( rrw ) .  in fy2006 , the committee is solidifying the progress made last year .  first , advanced concepts was missing from the president 's request and is essentially no longer under consideration .  second , rnep funding is again zero in the committee 's recommendation .  third , test readiness posture is held to 24 months .  fourth , the rrw concept was included in the president 's request .  the committee is working to accelerate the implicit transformation of the u.s. nuclear deterrent stockpile by increasing funds to $ 25 million while slowing programs extending the life of old weapons .  the promise of the rrw is that the u.s. will never need to resume nuclear weapons testing and will be able to sustain our deterrent with a smaller , less-expensive complex .  in light of these examples where taking a longer-term perspective is showing results , i fully support the efforts in this fy2006 energy and water development appropriation to get all three principal agencies funded in this bill to adopt and communicate 5-year plans for their programs .  further , we have long under-invested in the water infrastructure of our nation , and although this year is no exception , the bill undertakes significant efforts to help the u.s. army corps of engineers get effective control over management , particularly fiscal management of projects .  management improvements prepare the way for the most effective use of whatever level of funding can be supplied in the future .  concentrating funding on high-priority water projects to get them done should significantly improve the overall benefits of investment through the corps and bureau of reclamation , and so , i support this painful approach as well .  the chairman and i are taking steps to involve all members of the subcommittee in the oversight of the programs we fund .  everyone is being asked to concentrate on two subsets of our work .  this also takes the long-term perspective as it will prepare our capable colleagues for future roles as chairs and rankings of appropriations subcommittees while strengthening our current work as appropriators .  so , upon reflection , i am pleased with the positive effects of the last three years of energy and water development appropriations bills .  far more has been accomplished than the simple funding of government programs and the accommodation of congressional priorities .  the nation and the world are better and safer as a result .  what a privilege and pleasure to participate !  mr. chairman , i reserve the balance of my time .  mr. chairman , i reserve the balance of my time .  mr. chairman , i yield myself such time as i may consume .  i simply again thank the chairman for his leadership , for being a gentleman , and for being a friend ; and i recommend the legislation to my colleagues .  mr. chairman , i rise in opposition to h.r. 6 , the energy policy act .  h.r. 6 is a continuation of the disastrous energy policy that the republican leadership has been trying to force through congress for the past four years .  they claim that their bill will reduce the cost of a gallon of gasoline -- which now averages $ 2.24 per gallon -- and that it will reduce our reliance on foreign oil .  unfortunately , both of these claims are false .  in fact , enactment of h.r. 6 is likely to result in higher prices at the pump for americans .  even the department of energy estimates the price of a gallon of gasoline will increase by three cents if this bill is signed into law .  mr. chairman , h.r. 6 is a massive give-away to oil and gas companies .  it provides $ 7.5 billion in tax breaks and billions more in royalty relief to companies like exxon , mobil , chevron , texaco and conocophillips , which are already earning record profits , supposedly to encourage these companies to drill more on our public lands and produce more gasoline and oil .  as the president noted the other day , with the price of oil at $ 55 per barrel , these companies do not need any more encouragement to produce gasoline and oil .  the bill also permits drilling in the artic refuge thereby putting at risk one of the last pristine areas in the world , simply to gain less than six months ' worth of oil .  opening anwr does not make economic or environmental sense and we should not allow it to happen .  instead , we should be increasing the corporate average fuel economy ( cafe ) standards for cars and trucks sold in the united states to a more reasonable level .  taking this step would save millions more gallons of gasoline than would be recovered from anwr , and raising these standards would help improve the quality of air that we breathe .  this bill also weakens our nation 's environmental laws including the clean air act .  mr. chairman , los angeles is consistently ranked among the worst cities in america when it comes to air pollution and smog .  yet , if congress allows this bill to pass , the clean air act will be severely weakened and thousands of my constituents will see their health suffer because of the increased pollution and smog .  we should be supporting a bill that strengthens the clean air act , not weakening it .  mr. chairman , i am also very disappointed in the fact that this bill does nothing to address the massive defrauding of californian consumers at the hands of enron and other energy companies during the energy crisis of 2000 and 2001 .  during that time , energy companies intentionally took generators off line , made false submissions about the prices they bought and sold gas for , and fabricated transactions , all with the intention to make as much money as possible .  unfortunately , for thousands of californians , the energy companies succeeded in their efforts .  in the summer of 2000 , energy companies overcharged california $ 2.5 billion .  in 2001 , california paid approximately $ 26 billion for electricity because of the unscrupulous trading practices of the energy companies , raising the rates of every california ratepayer .  mr. chairman , the federal energy regulatory commission has already ruled that the prices the energy companies charged california were not `just and reasonable ' as required by law .  yet the companies have not had to pay any penalty for their criminal actions .  this bill does nothing to change that , but it should .  mr. chairman , the american people need us to enact legislation that will actually reduce the cost of gasoline and reduce our dependence on foreign oil .  they want us to support a bill that makes real investments in renewable energy and energy conservation .  i urge my colleagues to reject this special-interest legislation that puts big business before american consumers .  mr. chairman , republican leaders say that the bill before us is comprehensive energy legislation that will meet the nation 's energy needs by protecting the environment and safeguarding consumers .  well , these are the right goals , but there is only one problem : the bill accomplishes none of them .  this is an antienvironment , anticonsumer , antitaxpayer bill .  this bill fails to provide secure , sustainable , and affordable energy supplies .  it does nothing about the most important energy issues facing our nation , like addressing global warming and reducing the nation 's dependence on foreign oil .  instead , this bill lavishes taxpayer subsidies on big energy companies , while weakening our environmental laws .  i have never encountered a time when the disconnect between rhetoric and reality has been so enormous .  the president says he wants to save social security , yet he proposes a plan that would cut benefits and privatize the program .  republicans in congress say they want limited government , yet they enact legislation intruding on the end-of-life decisions for the poor woman in florida .  congressional leaders say they want to support high moral standards in government , yet they gut the ethics process in the house .  and in this so-called energy bill we shower billions on special interests while ignoring our nation 's serious energy needs .  the republican energy plan is a bonanza for the energy industry .  while natural gas , heating oil , and gasoline prices have skyrocketed , we are going to be giving these companies more money .  shell oil reported the highest corporate profits in the history of the united kingdom .  exxonmobil announced the largest annual profit ever made by a public company , $ 25 billion .  there are steps we could take to address our energy problems , but this legislation ignores them .  we urgently need to reduce our dependence on foreign oil , yet america 's dependence on oil imports will grow by 75 percent over the next 20 years under this bill .  the bill fails to address the market abuse and manipulation that caused the california energy crisis , costing consumers in california and western states billions of dollars .  this bill carves a loophole in the laws protecting our coastlines , our forests , and our public lands .  and under this bill , when a big oil company pollutes community drinking water , the oil companies will no longer be held responsible for cleaning it up .  it is a windfall for exxonmobil , but an attack on communities all around this country facing contaminated drinking water .  this bill makes the most significant changes to the clean air act in 15 years , allowing corporate polluters to expose 53 million americans to air pollution for years longer than current law .  i urge my colleagues to oppose this fundamentally flawed legislation .  mr. chairman , yes , it is .  mr. chairman , i yield myself the remaining time .  this only calls on the president to come up with some ideas talking to the people that are heading up his agencies .  if he thinks he needs legislative authority , he should ask for it .  but at least it makes him focus on not wasting oil , and there is a lot of waste that goes on .  and the president can simply appeal to people : tune up your motors , promote oil savings in the industrial sector , keep vehicles properly tuned , improve the tire inflations , improve air traffic management .  some of these small things can add up to savings , and the savings we call for are the savings based on projections of future oil .  i ask for an `` aye '' vote .  mr. chairman , i demand a recorded vote .  mr. chairman , i am willing to be as cooperative as possible , but i am not sure what the gentleman is suggesting .  we have a member on our side who wants to speak in favor of the proposal .  mr. chairman , i thank the gentleman for yielding to me .  we called for reformulated gasoline .  we did not spell out how that was to be done .  we did not spell out the technology .  we said to the oil companies , you figure out how to do it .  they could have done it with ethanol .  they chose reformulated gasoline .  what we wanted was cleaner gasoline , and they did not have to use mbte .  mr. chairman , if the gentleman will continue to yield , i will assume that it is a correct quote , but let me tell the gentleman that was not the only choice they could have made , and they knew evidently , from what we are learning , that mbte was a problem .  they could have used ethanol .  mr. chairman , if the gentleman will continue to yield , he is correct .  but we did not know at that time that it was going to pollute the drinking water .  mr. chairman , the chairman of the committee on science knows what is right .  the energy bill before us today is bad for the consumer , bad for the environment , and it does not make us energy independent .  in fact , it is the ultimate reason we are insecure as a nation .  in fact , by promoting the interests of corporations over consumers and pollution over conservation , this bill makes the united states much less secure .  h.r. 6 will harm more than just our environment , however .  america 's continued reliance on middle east oil for the majority of our energy needs is the single largest factor that contributes to our lack of national security .  it is time we stopped all efforts to drill in anwr because this is only a stop-gap measure .  instead , we need real energy independence , and that will only come when we start focusing our efforts as a nation on clean , renewable sources of energy , conservation , and efficiency .  it would be hypocritical for anyone who cares about our nation 's well-being to vote for this legislation .  i urge my colleagues , join me , vote against it .  mr. speaker , h.r. 6 , which the house passed earlier today , is called the energy policy act of 2005 .  but the only real policies to be found in this immoral legislation are tax breaks for polluters , swollen gasoline prices , and continued reliance on fossil fuels of the past .  this legislation fails to even mention climate change or global warming which scientists of all stripes acknowledge is caused at least in part by high levels of carbon dioxide emissions from automobiles .  it fails to correct the matter of mtbe , a gasoline additive that has leaked into the earth and tarnished our drinking water , except , however , to waive liabilities for mtbe providers .  most significant of all , mr. speaker , this legislation fails to truly address america 's reliance on middle east oil .  of the 21 million barrels consumed by the united states each day , 14 million barrels are imported , making middle east oil the united states ' main source of energy .  much of this oil is imported from countries that do not share america 's commitment to democracy and our commitment to human rights , countries like saudi arabia , libya , and venezuela .  it is obvious in this energy bill that those who claim that drilling in the arctic national wildlife refuge in alaska will cure our nation 's energy policy do not know much about how oil is produced .  drilling in anwr will do little to reduce our current dependence on foreign oil because it will take a full decade to process what little oil may be there in the first place .  that does not sound like a comprehensive energy strategy to me .  by continuing to purchase middle east oil by the boatload , we are failing to take advantage of life-changing renewable energy technologies while continuing to promote our national insecurity by providing billions of dollars each year to repressive regimes .  the oil dollars that go to oppressive middle east regimes do not , of course , help the poor people in these countries .  instead , they line the already thick pockets of the fat-cat ruling elite .  in this way , u.s. policies actually discourage democracy in the middle east because we continue to help maintain the economic gap between the rich and the poor .  in truth , this failure to reduce our dependence on middle east oil along with president bush 's supremely misguided invasion of iraq have combined to make americans less secure , not more secure .  the bush administration has falsely labeled the war in iraq , much like the latest energy bill , as the essence of protecting our national security , when in fact both contribute to our lack of security .  already more than 1 , 500 american soldiers and tens of thousands of iraqi civilians have been killed in this war , not to mention the more than 12 , 000 troops who have been gravely wounded .  hardly the stuff of a national security .  let us never forget that the invasion of iraq was a war of choice against a country that never posed a threat to the united states and never possessed relationships with international terrorist groups like al qaeda .  president bush claims that things are going well in iraq , demonstrated by the fact that 150 , 000 iraqi soldiers `` have been adequately trained. '' but if 150 , 000 iraqi soldiers have been trained , then why do 150 , 000 american soldiers remain in the country ?  why do our troops continue to die for a war that was a mistake from the very beginning ?  if president bush continues to support a misguided war that is draining our national resources , and if the republicans will not work to reduce our dependence on foreign oil , how can they possibly claim to be securing america against the threat of terrorism ?  clearly , much more needs to be done to make america secure .  mr. speaker , i will soon reintroduce the smart security resolution , legislation to secure america for the future by preventing the threat of terrorism ; reducing nuclear stock piles ; eliminating the possible use of nuclear weapons through diplomatic means ; and establishing a new apollo project to secure america 's energy independence .  i urge my colleagues on both sides of the aisle to join me in this effort to truly secure america for the future .  mr. speaker , i want to thank the gentleman from massachusetts for raising this point of order .  when the current majority took over the control of the congress , one of their first actions was to pass the unfunded mandated reform act ; and as a state legislator , i applauded their efforts because it was appropriate and fitting .  the bipartisan legislation provided a funding cap that congress could impose on states and local governments .  mr. speaker , here , today , i believe that we are breaking that commitment to our local governments and to communities if we pass this energy bill without moving to strike the legislation to mtbe .  unless we impose a spending cap , we are imposing too great of a financial burden on local government that is already hard pressed throughout our country .  there is no doubt that the mtbes pose a significant environmental health threat to our communities .  if released into the water table , a small portion of mtbes can ruin a community 's supply of drinking water .  in addition , exposure to this has resulted , as we know , in a number of cases of cancer , birth defects , and other illnesses .  mr. speaker , it is also evident that the legislation , i believe , is a direct violation of the unfunded mandated reform act .  the mtbe provisions presented in the energy bill would restrict the existing rights of states and communities to seek compensation under the law .  the same provisions would impose larger financial costs of the cleanup of those communities throughout our country ; and notwithstanding the argument of a member of $ 50 million , that is but the tip of the iceberg .  approximately half the members of our house have served in our state legislatures .  i was a past president of the national conference of state legislatures .  i will enter into the record at the end of my statement their opinion , in fact , that this is a violation of the unfunded mandates act that they , too , supported in the mid-1990s when the majority enacted this very important piece of legislation .  for my own district , the 20th district in california , we believe the costs could exceed $ 150 million because of the large number of sites that we have .  this bill eliminates my district 's ability to hold producers liable for the problem and help them assist in cleaning up .  on top of this , i believe that this does little to deal with the threats .  i urge that we support the point of order of the gentleman from massachusetts .  state legislatures , april 20 , 2005 .  dear representatives : the national conference of state legislatures urges you to support a point of order against h.r. 6 for its inclusion of unfunded federal mandates that would be imposed on state and local governments with the adoption of this legislation .  ncsl further urges you to strike those sections that include these unfunded mandates that exceed the unfunded mandates reform act threshold as identified by the congressional budget office 's preliminary review of h.r. 6 , the energy policy act of 2005 .  during the 108th congress , unfunded federal mandates exceeding $ 51 billion were imposed on state and local governments .  the house 's fy2006 budget resolution , h. con .  res. 95 , would impose unfunded mandates of over $ 30 billion in fy2006 alone if adopted by a conference committee .  the unfunded mandates proposed in h.r. 6 would serve to worsen what already is an unacceptable situation .  thank you for your consideration of our concerns and we are hopeful you will vote not to impose further unfunded mandates on state and local governments .  respectfully , representative joe hackney , senator beverly gard , mr. chairman , i rise today to express my support of the house version of the energy and water appropriations act for fiscal year 2006 , and i urge my colleagues to vote in support of this important measure .  i commend chairman hobson and ranking member visclosky for their work on this bill .  i believe it is a good start for addressing our nation 's water infrastructure and energy research needs , especially given the budget constraints .  as a farmer who works the land in colorado 's san luis valley , i know and understand water issues , and i ca n't emphasize how important it is to invest back into local water infrastructure .  without this investment , i fear we will continue to see a decline in the management of this irreplaceable resource -- water is the lifeblood of our rural communities .  the house energy and water appropriations bill would provide $ 29.7 billion for the army corps of engineers , the bureau of reclamation and department of energy , a $ 329 million increase over last year 's funding level .  i am pleased the committee included funding for three important projects which i had requested back in march for the 3rd district of colorado .  first and foremost , the committee included $ 56 million in funding for construction of the animas-la plata project .  this funding level represents a $ 4 million increase over the president 's budget request and comes on the heels of a colorado delegation letter which i spearheaded back in march .  i would also like to thank the committee for the inclusion of language which directs a larger percentage of program funds towards construction , not administrative costs .  completion of the a-lp will provide a much-needed water supply in the southwest corner of our state for both indian and non-indian municipal and industrial purposes .  it will also fulfill the intent of a carefully negotiated settlement agreement in the mid-1980s to ensure the legitimate claims of the two colorado ute tribes could be met without harm to the existing uses of their non-tribal neighbors .  since 2002 , the bureau of reclamation has made much progress , and work has been completed or initiated on many key project features .  this increased funding will allow the bureau to move forward in a way that will ensure timely completion of the a-lp and avoid costly delays .  the fy2006 energy and water appropriations bill also includes $ 315 , 000 for the arkansas river habitat restoration project .  the u.s. army corps of engineers in cooperation with the city of pueblo , colorado has completed 90 percent of the project including fish habitat structures along a 9-mile section of the river below pueblo dam through downtown pueblo .  this funding would be used to complete the project which is an important environmental restoration project for the project .  finally , the committee also provided a $ 1.021 million appropriation for the army corps of engineers to engage in operations and maintenance at trinidad lake , colorado ; this amount represents almost a $ 100 , 000 increase from the fy2005 funding level .  trinidad lake is a multipurpose project for flood control , irrigation and recreation , and was authorized by the 1958 flood control act .  the lake is located in southern colorado on the purgatoire river , and bordered by the historic santa fe trail .  the dam itself is an earthfill structure 6 , 860 feet long and 200 feet high , and constructed with some 8 million cubic yards of earth and rock .  each project is an important part of improving water related infrastructure .  as this bill proceeds through the appropriations process , i will continue the fight to preserve funding for the 3rd district of colorado .  mr. speaker , on rollcall no .  112 , i cast a vote of `` yea '' which should have been `` nay. '' it is my wish to correct this matter for the record .  had i been present , i would have voted `` no . '' mr. chairman , i rise today in objection to h.r. 6 , the energy bill under consideration by the full house of representatives this week .  sadly , the energy bill does little to reduce our nation 's dependence on foreign oil , decrease rising oil and gas prices , increase our national security , protect our environment , or encourage investment in renewable energy sources .  in fact , mr. chairman , of the $ 8 billion in tax breaks in this bill , only about 6 percent goes toward energy efficiency and renewable sources of energy , and the rest goes to the already booming oil and natural gas industry that already receives more than generous incentives .  and we 're not getting anything back from this disproportionate investment .  the administration 's own energy information administration acknowledges that with this bill , `` changes to production , consumption , imports , and prices are negligible. '' they even find that gasoline prices under this legislation would increase by between three and eight cents per gallon .  clearly , this measure is a short sighted political move aimed at winning friends and contributors instead of what it should be -- a long term plan to ease the energy burden on consumers and make the united states safer and energy independent -- and that 's a shame .  as a member of the committee on government reform 's subcommittee on energy and natural resources , i know all too well how energy needs shape our foreign policy and our national security agenda .  our desperate need for oil pits us against china and india .  it forces us into a position of funding governments and world leaders who funnel our payments to groups that are currently planning to do us harm .  and our need for oil from foreign markets forces our brave armed service men and women into harm 's way to protect our vital interests .  but oil need not be the lead driver in our national security policy .  we have resources at home like water , wind and sun that , with research and investment , can produce cleaner energy sources and cheaper alternatives , can reduce our dependence on foreign oil , and can create jobs and spur spending here at home .  just outside my district , with the water heaving over the niagara falls , we convert water into electricity every day .  it 's a shame this bill does n't address similar options around the country .  all too often i hear from my constituents in western new york that too many low-income families , disabled individuals and senior citizens are not able to afford their energy costs .  my district is particularly hard hit with extreme cold temperatures , which cause more families to face unaffordable heating costs and put families and seniors at a higher risk of life-threatening illness or death if their homes are too cold in the winter or too hot in the summer .  i will vote against the energy bill on the floor because this legislation ignores my constituents ' needs and adds to their troubles through higher prices , an increased tax burden , more pollution , and less national security .  i urge my colleagues to do the same .  madam chairman , i rise today in strong opposition to the energy policy act of 2005 .  madam chairman , this bill represents a lost opportunity .  now , more than ever , we need an energy bill that will wean the nation off of foreign oil .  we need to do this so hard-working americans are no longer subjected to the ever-rising costs of gasoline and we have to do this for the safety and security of our nation .  in my home district , the average price for a gallon of regular unleaded is $ 2.22 compared to $ 1.76 just one year ago .  yet , the bill before us will do nothing to relieve americans from the skyrocketing costs of gas .  my colleagues , even the bush administration recognizes this ; with the energy information administration saying that the bill would actually increase gas prices rather than reduce them .  what 's worse is that while the bill does nothing to relieve americans of their burden at the gas pump , it also takes an additional $ 7.5 billion out of their pockets as a tax giveaway to oil , gas , coal and nuclear industries -- industries that are earning record profits -- without setting a course towards energy independence .  the president himself said , just last week , `` with $ 55 oil we do n't need incentives for oil and gas companies to explore .  there are plenty of incentives. '' this congress needs to establish an energy policy that sets america free from its dependence on imported oil .  yet , only seven percent of the tax incentives in this bill will go towards renewable energy and energy efficiency -- leaving us to be reliant on the same old energy sources .  h.r. 6 is , unfortunately , par for the course for the republican leadership , which has turned a blind eye to scientific discovery -- be it medical , physical , or otherwise .  america can not continue to be a world leader with regard to scientific discovery unless we invest and provide incentives , including for energy sources of the future .  in addition to its misdirected energy priorities , the bill contains several dirty little footnotes .  it will pollute our air and water and exploit our federal lands .  it exempts mtbe manufacturers from cleaning up the groundwater they polluted -- violating our nation 's longstanding polluter pay policy .  it will let oil and gas companies off the hook from the safe water drinking act -- allowing them to skirt water standards .  mr. speaker , we can not continue to go down the same worn out path .  we must set the nation on a course to energy independence which means promoting cleaner , less expensive energy that we control .  that requires a balanced energy policy that aids domestic production but , more importantly , sends us in a new direction by investing in renewable and energy efficient technologies .  unfortunately , h.r. 6 does not meet this goal , leaving our senate colleagues to find a better way .  hopefully , they will be able to craft a bill that achieves a better balance than this legislation .  i urge a `` no '' vote on h.r. 6 .  mr. speaker , i thank the gentleman from massachusetts for yielding me this time .  i rise in opposition to this rule and to the underlying bill .  the republican majority has brought to the floor a bill that subsidizes the past at the expense of the future , and we should not vote for it .  i am particularly troubled about the amnesty this bill gives to mtbe polluters and the effect it has on my home state of california .  in 1990 , the oil industry began adding mtbe to gasoline in order to make it burn cleaner .  the industry knew that mtbe was a harsh groundwater pollutant and had safe alternatives at its fingertips .  but the industry used mtbe anyway .  25 years later , over 18 , 000 water systems in 29 states are infected with mtbe , including three wells in my home district of sacramento .  making our drinking water clean will cost an estimated $ 29 billion nationwide .  i think polluters should pay that bill .  our cities and towns agree .  not surprisingly , however , the texas-based mtbe manufacturers think they deserve a bailout .  so they went to their friends in washington , and the republican majority gave them a blanket amnesty for cleaning up their pollution .  it is unbelievable and our constituents should be horrified .  mr. speaker , we should be investing in renewables and conservation .  we should be strengthening our natural security by reducing our dependence on foreign oil .  we should be doing a lot of things today .  protecting guilty polluters is not one of them .  i urge my colleagues to defeat this rule and the underlying bill .  mr. speaker , in accordance with my request of last thursday , i offer a privileged resolution ( h. res. 253 ) as to a question of the privileges of the house and ask for its immediate consideration .  mr. speaker , can we inquire of the distinguished chairman of the committee on the judiciary , who has not used any of his time yet , how many speakers he has ?  mr. speaker , i reserve the balance of my time .  mr. speaker , i yield myself 5 seconds .  i tell my dear friend who just left the well , we are not here to debate the bill .  we debated the bill in committee .  we debated it on the floor .  we are talking about the titles in the section that were mislabeled .  mr. speaker , how much time remains on each side ?  mr. speaker , may i ask the chairman of the committee how many speakers he has remaining .  mr. speaker , on that i demand the yeas and nays .  mr. speaker , i thank the gentlewoman from new york ( ms. slaughter )  for yielding me time .  let me say as president reagan used to say , here we go again .  another supplemental spending bill for the war in iraq and why ?  because time and time again , the republicans refuse to spend one cent for this war in their sham budget , a budget every democrat opposed this year and last year ; because we need these so-called off budget bills to cover up the exploding deficits the republicans have given , not to us , but to our children and grandchildren totaling $ 27 , 000 for every american .  we are going to need a death tax relief just to pay for the birth tax that our children and grandchildren will have to pay .  to add insult to injury , the republicans have added to this must-pass spending bill for our troops the real id act .  these provisions , which are supposed to make our country more secure , will do nothing but place more anti-immigrant restrictions making it harder for honest people fleeing religious prosecution from entering our country , and added a $ 100 million unfunded mandate onto our states .  if this were in place , it would not have prevented the attacks of 9/11 .  that is purely false .  the 9/11 commission has said they are unwarranted .  it was added by the right wing extremist from the republican conference .  this legislation , which , again , the 9/11 commission has called `` unwarranted , '' was added by the right wing extremists in the republican caucus whose joy in bashing immigrants is exceeded only by their zest for tax cuts for the wealthy in this country .  mr. speaker , i thank the gentleman for that information .  mr. leader , i noticed that the budget conference report is not listed on the schedule next week .  the gentleman and i talked about that last week .  can the gentleman tell us when the gentleman believes the budget conference will be appointed and when we might have that on the floor ?  mr. speaker , i thank the gentleman for that information .  if i could raise one additional issue , it is my understanding that one of the reasons we have not appointed conferees and we have not gone to conference is the issue of the medicaid cuts .  i understand a substantial number of members on your side have suggested that those cuts are not advisable .  obviously , the senate did not include those cuts .  can the majority leader tell me at this point in time if there has been any resolution of this issue , as to where we might stand on those medicaid cuts .  mr. chairman , i thank my friend for that information .  again , i do not know the accuracy of the letter in terms of the numbers of people , but there seemed to be a fair number of people , there were over 40 , on the letter which appeared to agree with the senate 's view , obviously a large number on this side who share that view as well .  perhaps we might have some discussions about reaching agreement on that issue at some point in time .  mr. speaker , i rise to a question of personal privilege .  mr. speaker , i appreciate my friend 's comments , but just to correct the historical record , you may recall in the 1960s , president johnson did decide to pay for the war .  there were some tax increases in order to support the ongoing military operation .  it can be done .  it should be done in this instance as well .  we have been there for a couple years now .  we are going to be there in future years .  we need to start paying for this .  mr. speaker , i thank the gentlewoman from new york ( ms. slaughter )  for yielding me time and for her leadership .  mr. speaker , as the daughter of a veteran , i want to first express my profound respect for our brave men and women serving in iraq , but we are not helping these brave troops if we blindly sign yet another blank check for this unjust and unnecessary war in iraq .  this $ 82 billion supplemental would bring the total war spending to over $ 300 billion .  how can we sign off on another $ 82 billion check when the bush administration has failed to provide the proper accounting of where the taxpayer money is going ?  how can we sign off on this check when our own government reported yesterday that another $ 100 million can not be accounted for ?  this is on top of the $ 9 billion from last year that is still missing .  how can we sign this check if the bush administration has offered no plan to bring our troops home ?  furthermore , are we safer today than we were before this unnecessary war started ?  iraq is now a breeding ground for terrorists .  we are less safe as a result of this war .  members know and i know .  before the invasion of iraq , there was no connection between saddam hussein and osama bin laden .  still , this administration would have us also believe that adding the unrelated anti-immigrant provisions to this supplemental bill would make us safer , but the fact is real id will do nothing to make us safe .  this administration has much to account for .  they are cutting section 8 for our seniors and our poor .  they are cutting the budget for housing for people living with aids .  they are cutting housing for the disabled .  they are cutting medicaid .  when you look at $ 13.5 billion over the next 5 years for our veterans , they are cutting that .  they are making the least of these pay for this war .  that is wrong .  this is a whole new level of immorality that i have ever seen .  this distortion of the facts with regard to iraq and the fact that they told us that weapons of mass destruction were there , we know that is not the case .  we know that .  you know that .  yet another $ 82 billion to fund this war that has not made this country any safer .  it has made us less safe .  when you look at what is happening in our own country , when you look at health care , when you look at the people out there in the street that are suffering , why do they have to pay for this war ?  i ask for a no vote .  mr. speaker , i would like to ask if the distinguished chairman wishes to repeat his tactic of last week of waiting until everybody else has spoken and then mischaracterize what we have said so that we can not reply to him .  is that his intent today ?  is that why he is reserving his time now so that he can speak after everybody else has spoken ?  mr. speaker , is it his intent to let anybody on this side speak after he has spoken even if he closes ?  mr. speaker , i offer a resolution raising a question of the privileges of the house .  mr. speaker , i give notice of this resolution and that it will be brought up as soon as the rules permit .  mr. speaker , by the form , does the speaker mean the text ?  mr. speaker , i do not ask that unanimous consent .  will the clerk read the resolution ?  mr. speaker , i seek recognition on a question of personal privilege pursuant to rule ix of the rules of the house .  i have placed at the desk the documentation on which this question is based .  mr. speaker , i have a parliamentary inquiry .  have the corrections or the supplemental report to the committee report been filed yet ?  mr. speaker , i thank the gentlewoman for yielding me this time .  let me simply say that i intend to support this legislation when we actually get to it , but that does not mean i am happy with the contents of it .  there are clearly more than seven or eight items , major items that i find very problematic .  but what i want to do at this time is to alert the house to the contents of the motion that we would make on the rule if the previous question is not adopted .  if the previous question is not adopted , we would be offering a request to establish a select committee such as the truman committee back in world war ii to investigate and study the awarding and carrying out of government contracts to conduct activities in afghanistan and iraq .  i would simply point out , all one has to do is to read the newspapers daily to understand how badly this is needed .  the washington post this morning has the most recent story : `` audit of iraq spending spurs criminal probe , '' and then it talks about opening a criminal inquiry into millions of dollars missing in iraq after auditors have uncovered indications of fraud and nearly $ 100 million in reconstruction spending that could not be properly accounted for .  the article goes on to say , the audit of u.s. funds found that the contract files were `` unavailable , incomplete , inconsistent and unreliable. '' other than that , they were terrific .  and the article points out that as a result , auditors have said the u.s. government may have trouble making a case against contractors who overbill or do not do what they are supposed to do .  now , we have been virtually begging on bended knee to get this congress to establish a committee with teeth to look into this problem .  we met with no success .  i would point out that stands in stark contrast to what happened in 1941 when then senator harry truman became aware of similar stories , and he saw to it that a committee was created in the congress to investigate that situation .  that committee held 432 public hearings and 300 executive sessions and issued 51 reports and saved the taxpayers a load of money .  i would also point out , that was a case where a democratic congress was investigating a democratic administration , and no great harm was done to the republic in the process .  a lot of good was done .  so i just want to urge members to vote against the rule because , in my mind , this congress is derelict in its duty and , in my mind , any member of congress who refuses to recognize how the taxpayers ' dollars are being siphoned off every day by these operations , by these sloppy operations in iraq , they are contributing to the fact that the taxpayers are being fleeced .  they may not be wanting to do that , but that is the practical effect of their actions .  so i would suggest , mr. speaker , sooner or later , we are going to have this committee , because we are going to be stuck in iraq for another 5 years , and we are going to see stories like this headline every week .  it is about time we got around to setting up a cleanup brigade to deal with the problem before we are all acutely embarrassed by it .  so with that , mr. speaker , i simply want to say that while i would urge support for the underlying bill , i would urge that the rule not be supported until we have had an opportunity for this house to meet its oversight responsibilities .  we ought to be acting like a watchdog in this case .  instead , we are acting like puppy dogs .  that is not going to help the taxpayer very much .  mr. speaker , i yield 2 minutes to the gentlewoman from texas ( ms. jackson-lee )  .  ( ms. jackson lee of texas asked and was given permission to revise and extend her remarks ) .  mr. speaker , i yield myself 10 seconds to respond to the previous speaker and to remind him that the hijackers , many of them , had driver 's licenses from the state of virginia , and others had visas and passports .  so i do not think this national id card would have stopped them .  also , if he is referring to members on our side saying that we are not safer than we were on 9/11 , i would report that was a government report saying that tsa has made us no safer than it was before .  mr. speaker , again , i urge a `` no '' vote on the previous question , and i reserve the balance of my time .  mr. speaker , i yield myself the balance of my time .  let me take the time i have remaining to just say that we are not doing what the 9/11 commission asked .  they wanted us to negotiate with our states on whether they wanted to do this or not ; and what we have done is impose upon the states , without any hearings or any discussion with them , from top down , an unfunded mandate requiring them to change their driver 's license at our whim .  so this is not that at all .  we are , in fact , undoing what the 9/11 commission said .  mr. speaker , i object to the vote on the ground that a quorum is not present and make the point of order that a quorum is not present .  my colleagues , this is a measure that we should be able to identify the problem , study the data , and work together to craft a commonsense response to youth violence .  but the measure before us has fatal flaws which authorizes trying more juveniles as adults and provides for more mandatory minimums and more death penalties .  none of these things will correct and reduce the youth violence problem , but they will seriously harm our system of juvenile justice .  now , the one thing that we should know before we go to a vote here is the organizations that have joined myself and the gentleman from virginia ( mr. scott )  , the ranking subcommittee member , and the gentleman from illinois ( mr. davis )  , who has worked tirelessly on this issue across the years with the congressional black caucus .  for instance , the judicial conference of the united states opposes this measure .  the sentencing commission opposes this measure ; the alliance for children and families , the children 's defense fund , the youth law center , the american civil liberties union , the american correctional association , the chamber of commerce , the national federation of independent businesses , the national council of la raza , the presbyterian church , and the volunteers of america .  and let me tell my colleagues why these groups oppose this legislation .  because , first , they know that trying children as adults and transferring them to adult jails not only does not work , but it makes the situation more likely that they will commit crimes upon release .  there are studies that back this up ; that they will commit violent crimes upon release , and they will commit crimes sooner upon release .  the miami herald study concluded that , since adult prisons are , in effect , often crime schools , sending a juvenile there increases by 35 percent the odds that they will commit another offense within a year of release .  secondly , we know that mandatory minimums distort the sentencing process because the judicial conference and the sentencing commission have found that mandatory minimums `` destroy honesty in sentencing by encouraging charge and fact plea bargains. '' again , the legislation before us ignores these facts and creates numerous new mandatory minimums that will lead to far greater disparities and further discrimination .  at a time when we have more than 2.1 million americans in prisons or jails , more than any nation on the planet , and 10 percent of these individuals are already serving life sentences , it is difficult for reasonable legislators to see how more jail time for more youth can accomplish anything constructive .  finally , we know now that the death penalty system in this country is incredibly prone to error .  so i urge that the members of this house return this measure to the committee on the judiciary .  mr. chairman , i can not think of anybody who would want to see gangs deterred more .  i can not think of anybody who would want to see crime deterred more .  i can not think of many people who have had more experience living in inner-city communities , where there is a tremendous amount of poverty , deprivation and pestilence .  i want to see people who commit robbery , murder , rape , assaults , participate in mob action , all of them dealt with accordingly .  and although i do not believe in capital punishment , i do believe that they have to be punished .  i do not believe that mandatory minimums , that trying more children , more teenagers as adults , or changing venues and deciding what discretionary action individuals would be tried under is going to solve the problem .  i think that we need to make sure that fairness is a part of justice .  mr. chairman , this bill frightens me .  it scares me .  i would hope that we would take it back , deal with it appropriately and bring a bill that we can agree on that punishes those who deserve to be punished but to demonstrate that we understand sensitivity and not put children in jail as adults .  madam chairman , let me add to the distinguished gentleman 's commentary .  first of all , in the passage of the patriot act , if we are fearful of these gangs smuggling individuals over who do terrorist acts , the patriot act enhances sentencing on those engaging in terrorist acts .  that tragic incident in texas , for example , in houston , the information suggests that the dad was involved in gang activity that caused the , if you will , rising of the level of violence ; but the good news is that the sheriff 's department arrested those violent criminals .  this bill misses the point by providing a comprehensive approach to have intervention to be able to dissuade some of the young people of america away from the affinity and kinship of gangs .  that is why the bill is wrong , and this is why it does not have a full comprehensive approach .  mr. speaker , i thank the gentleman for yielding me this time .  mr. speaker , i have worked with gangs at home in conjunction with our police department , and there is a way to start prevention .  i recognize that the crimes that have been mentioned here this morning are crimes that should be punished .  i believe if you do the crime , you do the time .  but i also believe that you can prevent this with young people .  i dialogued with members of a gang several years ago , shortly after i heard that the people are coming from los angeles to start gangs .  and in dialoguing with these young people , i first had to understand what they were saying .  that gang activity has been converted to something positive because i encouraged it .  i said , stay together but do not do crime stuff , do things positive .  that is what they have done .  they have even run people for office .  you have got to not give up on young people .  americans deserve a bill that would successfully combat gang activity and violence .  this bill does fall short of that .  this bill fails to address the root of the problem .  even though law enforcement is vital , we must try to prevent gang activities before they occur .  prevention programs can save many lives and many dollars .  it is a lot cheaper to prevent all this crime and prevent them going to jail and for them to stay in school .  of the $ 50 million appropriated in this bill , not one penny goes toward prevention .  you can call it play .  you can call it anything you want .  but in-school and after-school prevention programs successfully teach young people the skills they need to combat peer pressure .  they target environmental risk factors by teaching young people conflict resolution skills , cultural sensitivity and the negative aspects of gang life , if it is violent .  these young people want to be a part of something , and it might as well be a positive experience .  we must stop the violence at the source .  if we do not put forth that activity , that is when it gravitates to what he just discussed .  we must give our young people a path to success not just a path to prison .  mr. speaker , i rise to address the house to inquire of the majority whip the schedule for next week .  mr. speaker , i thank the majority deputy whip for that information .  i will continue to yield to the gentleman to ask about the gang violence and the first responder bills .  which day will we consider each bill , and what type of rule is anticipated for each bill ?  mr. speaker , i thank the gentleman .  mr. deputy whip , does leadership anticipate having votes next friday ?  mr. speaker , continuing to yield to the gentleman , i understand we have appropriation bills coming up , and we understand we may have a number of appropriation bills on the floor prior to the memorial day district work period .  which appropriation bills will be considered prior to the recess ?  mr. speaker , i thank the gentleman from missouri for all of that valuable information .  we appreciate it .  mr. chairman , i would like to thank the gentleman from wisconsin for working with me on this section , section 922 ( x ) which he just basically took out .  i appreciate him working with us on that issue .  mr. speaker , i yield myself such time as i may consume to respond to my colleague by saying that all the groups he has mentioned , and so many more , also support the cops program , too , which the president has cut by $ 40 million .  we can talk all we want about using all this harsh rhetoric , but the bottom line is , there are laws already on the books if you commit a violent crime in this country .  right now , if you commit a murder , you will go to jail .  one of the things that is most troubling to me as we talk about how we make our communities safer , there is no talk about the fact that we are cutting funds for our local police departments .  we need more police on the streets .  that is not the only answer here , but clearly , the answer is not cutting the cops program , which the republican majority in this house is doing , and the president has suggested in his budget .  mr. speaker , i object to the vote on the grounds that a quorum is not present and make the point of order that a quorum is not present .  mr. chairman , i rise against this h.r. 1279 , the gang deterrence and community prosecution act of 2005 .  i strongly believe in cooperation between federal and state law enforcement to deter gang activities .  however , this bill takes the wrong approach by imposing mandatory sentences , trying juveniles as adults and expanding the death sentence to new offenses .  i , myself , can appreciate the destruction that gang violence can impose on a community .  in chicago alone , there are estimated to be 70 , 000 to 100 , 000 gang members -- compared with about 13 , 000 chicago police officers .  several `` super gangs '' dominate : the gangster disciples , the black disciples , the vice lords , the black p stones , the mickey cobras , the latin kings , the spanish cobras , the maniac latin disciples , and the satan disciples .  each of these gangs controlled large amounts of territory and have wreaked havoc on the chicago community .  nevertheless , prevention and intervention is the key in deterring juvenile crime and gang activities , not discriminatory mandatory sentencing or unfettered prosecutorial discretion .  study after study have shown that trying juveniles as adults does not reduce crime but increases crime , including violent crime .  in addition , a better approach , as opposed to this ill-advised approach , would be to focus our energy on more programs for at risk youth such as head start , job corps and family focused intervention programs .  again , i rise against h.r. 1279 , and urge my colleagues on both sides of the aisle to do the same .  mr. chairman , i stand today in strong opposition to h.r. 1279 , the so-called gang deterrence and community protection act .  despite its deceptive title , its primary purpose is to punish more young people as adults .  this bill would expand the use of the death penalty , treat juveniles as adults and impose mandatory minimum sentences .  the research conclusively shows that prosecuting young people as adults does not reduce youth crime .  if congress is serious about reducing youth violence , it should fund evidence-based programs that have proven effective .  federal prosecutors are already armed with the continuing criminal enterprise , cce , and racketeer influences and corrupt organization act , rico , statutes to combat gang crimes .  this bill would unnecessarily federalize a host of crimes currently and competently handled by the states ; penalize even non-violent crimes and misdemeanors as crimes of violence , including garden variety state offenses like resisting arrest ; expand without reason the definition of criminal street gang ; unwisely leave to the sole discretion of the government the unreviewable decision to try juveniles as adults ; impose unduly harsh and discriminatory mandatory minimum sentences ; and expand the use of the federal death penalty to new offenses .  i agree that gang violence and youth crimes are serious concerns today .  unfortunately , this bill does nothing in the way of jobs or education for at-risk youth .  instead , this bill would lock up young people in adult prisons and take away judges ' discretion to review on a case-by-case basis crimes committed by youth .  research shows that young people who are prosecuted as adults are more likely to commit a greater number of crimes upon release than youth who go through the juvenile justice system .  locking young people up in adult prisons will actually compromise public safety .  we know what works to prevent violent crime .  research demonstrates the effectiveness of focused family interventions such as family therapy and multidimensional treatment foster care .  certain school-based interventions such as the bullying prevention program and the project towards no drug abuse , and careful monitoring programs such as big brothers big sisters of america have also proven effective .  instead of funding these programs whose empirical effectiveness can be demonstrated , supporters of this bill insist upon approaches that lack any evidence of actually deterring and reducing violent youth crime .  furthermore , state juvenile justice systems are more appropriate and effective means for addressing youth offenses .  studies have shown that comprehensive , locally tailored strategies are the most effective in preventing gang and youth violence .  existing state legislation is more than adequate to comprehensively address youth violence -- increased federalization of juvenile crime is not the answer .  the judicial conference of the united states , child advocacy groups , criminal justice groups , industry and business-oriented groups , religious , human rights and civil rights organizations all oppose this bill .  it is the responsibility of congress to the young people of this nation and to all citizens to ensure public safety .  i urge my colleagues to reject h.r. 1279 because it would only exacerbate youth violence in the united states .  madam chairman , i rise in opposition to the bill , and i yield myself such time as i may consume .  madam chairman , it is unfortunate that we are again debating how to reduce juvenile crime and violence .  rather than following through on the proven crime and violence prevention techniques that work , we are back to tough-talking sound byte policies that have been proven to not only fail to reduce crime but actually increase crime , waste taxpayers ' money and discriminate against minorities .  seven years ago , it was the violent youth predator act .  now it is the `` gang busters '' bill , with the same array of poll-tested sound bytes : trying more juveniles as adults and mandatory minimum sentences .  the bill includes mandatory life or death penalties , even for unintentional acts .  this bill is in no way like the bill we developed a few years ago on a bipartisan basis to address youth crime and violence following the dark days following the columbine school shootings .  that bill was cosponsored by all of the members of the subcommittee on crime and was based on combined wisdom and expertise of law enforcement , juvenile court judges , administrators , researchers , criminologists and juvenile justice advocates along with the entire political spectrum .  all of the hastert-gephardt task force members called witnesses to let us know what we should do to reduce crime and violence amongst juveniles .  not a single one of those witnesses said we needed to add more federal mandatory minimum sentences .  not one mentioned the death penalty .  not one said anything about trying more juveniles as adults .  not one .  the fully bipartisan bill we developed from recommendations of those experts was full of collaborative efforts between federal , state , and local officials aimed at addressing the problems caused by young people and addressing them early , focused on prevention and keeping them out of trouble to begin with .  and when they first get in trouble , intervene early and provide sufficient sanctions and services to get them back on the straight and narrow .  further , if they do come back , hit them with graduated so make no mistake about it : the children affected by this bill will be those children whose roles in gang crimes are minor or fringe , because we are already trying youth who commit serious violent offenses as adults and locking them up for long periods of time .  it is the lesser offenders , the children who get in fist fights , committing misdemeanors , who will be subject to the 10-year , mandatory minimum numbers in this bill .  those who commit murder or rape or chop off hands with machetes or even conspire to do that are already subject to life sentences .  so the 10-year mandatory minimums will be the friends who get in fights .  madam chairman , we already lock up more people than anywhere on earth : 714 per 100 , 000 , way above whatever is in second place , way above the national average of 100 per 100 , 000 .  in fact , whereas there is 1 out of 63 white youth 25- to 29-years old in jail today , we lock up one out of every 8 african-american youth in jail today .  this bill , with all of its discriminatory policies , will only add to that disparity .  and for what ?  a long line of studies conducted by the department of justice and crime researchers have consistently told us that treating more juveniles as adults will increase crime and violence .  the coalition of juvenile justice study , `` childhood on trial , '' coincidentally released the same day as this bill was introduced , covers thousands of cases over a long period of time and confirmed that adult treatment of more juveniles increases crime and violence and is discriminatory in its application .  that is primarily because if the judge finds a person guilty in adult court , his only possibilities are lock the child up with adults or let them walk on probation or parole .  if they get locked up with adults , they will obviously come out worse than they went in .  and so the studies show that if we increase the number of juveniles tried as adults we will not only increase crime , but we will increase violent crime .  now , this bill not only includes provisions to try more juveniles as adults .  it also includes more mandatory minimums .  we know from all of the credible research , mandatory minimum sentences are the most costly and least effective way to address crime .  as compared to intelligent approaches , like having the worst offenders get the most time and lesser offenders get less time , or drug treatment for drug-addicted offenders , mandatory minimum sentences have been shown to waste money and discriminate against minorities .  that is why the federal judicial conference has told us time and time again that mandatory minimum sentences violate common sense .  we also know that the death penalty is not only flawed , but is disproportionately applied to minorities and the poor .  it also does not reduce crime .  some 199 people have been freed from death row over the last 10 years because they were innocent of the crimes for which they received the death penalty .  now , until we fund the innocence protection provisions we passed last year , we should not be passing new death penalties .  but unfortunately , despite all of our agreement and progress , we have failed in the most important aspect of our prior work , and that is to provide adequate funding for the initiatives that we passed .  the most money we have ever been able to get appropriated for the juvenile justice bills was $ 55 million a year , about one-tenth of what was necessary .  we are , in fact , cutting funding for these programs in our budget , and also cutting money for local law enforcement .  and this bill provides nothing for prevention , nothing for early intervention , and virtually nothing in the bill goes to local law enforcement .  it all goes to federal prosecution and incarceration .  instead , almost $ 400 million in the bill will go to the federal prosecutors and possibly billions to locking up people under the long mandatory minimum sentences .  madam chairman , we have a choice in crime policy .  we can play politics , or we can reduce crime .  and we know what to do to reduce crime .  all the researchers have told us .  in fact , a few weeks ago i met with some students at monument high school in south boston , massachusetts , and i told them about this upcoming hearing we were having on the gang bill , and i asked them what did they think needed to be done to keep kids out of gangs .  they said , kids join gangs for reputation , protection , to feel wanted , to have friends , and to get money .  and what is needed to prevent them from joining gangs was ample recreation for boys as well as girls , jobs and internships for training and money , and assistance to allow their families to live in decent homes .  recently , i met with law enforcement officials in my district , and they had similar advice .  neither group said anything about the need for more mandatory minimums , trying more juveniles as adults , or new death penalties .  none of them asked us to waste money on these programs .  but we took their advice a few years ago and actually started the process for doing what was necessary to reduce crime : prevention and early intervention .  but we did not finish the job of funding the programs .  we should fund juvenile justice prevention programs , early intervention programs , and local law enforcement instead of passing this bill .  madam chairman , i reserve the balance of my time .  madam chairman , i yield myself 1 minute just to say , first of all , that my distinguished colleague from virginia and i will be working together later this week if they try to close any military bases .  but on this bill we , unfortunately , have to disagree .  first of all , madam chairman , murder , rape , kidnapping are already illegal in every state .  interstate gang members can be caught by rico and organized crime , continuing criminal enterprise , fbi is already working on that .  but this bill contains a provision that fist fights can subject young people to 10-year mandatory minimums .  the after-school programs that have been disparaged are the kinds of things that will actually reduce gang involvement .  you can disparage them by calling it arts and crafts for gang members .  but if you ask the researchers what will actually make a difference , it is those after-school programs to give the kids constructive things to do with their time .  madam chairman , i yield myself 30 seconds .  if the bill passes or does not pass , it will still be illegal to stab someone 16 times .  what we ought to be looking at are the kinds of initiatives that will reduce the chances that that will happen again .  giving a 10-year mandatory minimum for a second offense fist fight is not going to reduce the chance that someone will be stabbed 16 times when you are not funding any of the programs that are desperately needed to actually reduce juvenile crime .  madam chairman , i yield myself 1 minute .  whether this bill passes or not , murder , rape , robbery will be illegal .  people will be prosecuted .  they will get time in jail .  in fact , as i indicated before , for 15- to 19-year-old african americans in this country , one out of eight are already in jail today .  this bill , which will try more juveniles as adults , will not only increase the number in jail but will also increase the crime rate .  mandatory minimums have been shown to be discriminatory and waste the taxpayers ' money .  the death penalty is discriminatory and does not do anything about crime .  this bill will give 10 years mandatory minimums to second-offense fist fights , and that is not the kind of sentence that is going to do anything about these violent kinds of crimes that my colleagues are talking about .  ten years , mandatory minimum , second offense , fist fight .  mr. chairman , reserving the right to object , i would ask the gentleman to please explain the modification , if that is not part of his presentation .  mr. chairman , i withdraw my reservation of objection .  mr. chairman , i claim the time in opposition .  mr. chairman , if you kill a police officer you are going to get death or life without parole .  if you make any murder in the federal system you are looking at life .  if you are talking about the impact of this bill , it is a 10-year mandatory minimum for second-offense fist fights .  we have been asked where our compassion is for the victims .  we have got mandatory minimums where you already know that it violates common sense , it wastes the taxpayers money , it fails to do anything about reducing crime .  that is what the studies have shown .  trying juveniles as adults we know increases crime .  that is a good question .  where is your compassion for the victims when you are actually increasing crime ?  we know what works to reduce crime .  we know what polls well , and what we need to do is have some compassion for common sense and actually enact those provisions that will reduce crime .  we know that prevention and early intervention work .  you know , you can make jokes about it ; but we know what works and we know what polls well .  if we are going to show some compassion for our victims , we ought to do something to actually reduce crime .  i am in its present form .  mr. speaker , i demand a recorded vote .  mr. chairman , reclaiming the time , i would hope that the gentleman would also support the idea of a broader study on gangs , period , and that we could identify a number of areas to be looked at .  would the gentleman be interested in that at some point in time ?  mr. chairman , i thank the gentleman .  i thank the gentleman for yielding me this time .  mr. chairman , addressing gang violence across this nation is absolutely an important step so that people can feel safe in their communities and so that our youth will grow up to be productive , happy , satisfied adults .  while i commend my colleagues on the other side of the aisle for addressing this important issue , i am deeply disappointed in their legislation .  gang violence affects most communities across the united states .  in fact , i represented the sixth district of california , which is north of the golden gate bridge from san francisco .  in my district , there is no exception .  we too have gang violence .  the largest city in my district , santa rosa , is increasingly faced with gang violence .  drive-by shootings are becoming so common that the newspapers no longer report the incidents on the front page .  local communities must address this problem , no question ; and santa rosa is working hard to do so .  with the help of new state of california funding through measure zero , a sales tax that passed in the last go-around , the city is providing diversion programs that appeal to youth , such as after-school programs and increased recreational activities .  community leaders are finding more job opportunities for young people , and adults are mentoring them and exposing them to situations that are positive alternatives to gang life .  even the conservative think tank , mr. speaker , the heritage foundation , agrees that these are the best ways to curb gang violence .  this bill does not provide significant funding to states and local communities to build on their successful local programs .  rather , h.r. 1279 creates new death penalties , mandatory minimum sentences , and measures to prosecute children in adult court , in other words , applying adult punishment to young people .  this is the wrong approach , and i can not support it .  i urge my colleagues to join me in opposing h.r. 1279 and insisting that we go back and prepare legislation with real workable solutions and alternatives to gang violence .  mr. chairman , reclaiming my time , i thank the gentleman for his support .  mr. speaker , i rise in opposition to h. j. res. 27 , which withdraws approval of the united states from the agreement establishing the world trade organization .  the wto was created to oversee and regulate international commerce through the establishment of universal trade agreements .  the institution of these agreements would provide assurance and accountability between member nations , with the prospect of future economic prosperity .  the goal of these trade practices is to ease facilitation of global business for producers , exporters , and importers .  my opposition to this resolution and consequent support of the wto is not without qualification .  while there is great value in continuing multilateral trade regulations and mailltaining the general integrity of the wto , this organization has consistently foundered in its role of impartial adjudicator and continues to undermine the domestic trade sovereignty of our nation .  over the past decade , we have witnessed a massive increase in the u.s. trade deficit , an alarming number of dislocated american workers , and consistent threats to the autonomy of u.s. domestic trade policy .  the international community has seen the numerous shortcomings of the wto system , including poorly enforced labor laws that afford many countries an unfortunate competitive advantage in the global marketplace .  the premise of independent unionization and equitable development has not been realized in the past 10 years under the wto and continues to underscore the need for a reevaluation and modification of the institution .  though the world trade organization has failed to deliver on the promises of economic gains to developing countries and general worldwide trade policy , the solution is not to withdraw u.s. support or approval .  we must continue to work inside the infrastructure of the wto and towards progressive policies .  as a principal partner in the wto , we must not disassociate ourselves from the organization or we will realize the regression of our global economy .  our obligations to the american worker necessitate a competent and responsible trade policy that can only be achieved through the refinement of the current system .  mr. speaker , i oppose this resolution but reserve judgment over the current policies and procedures of the world trade organization .  it is in the best interests of our nation to continue our active involvement in the wto , while reconsidering and reworking current international trade policies .  mr. speaker , i thank my friend from california for yielding me this time .  mr. speaker , i think it is important for us to understand why this resolution is before us that brings forward h. j. res. 27 .  we are now celebrating the tenth anniversary of the creation of the world trade organization , the wto .  when congress passed the legislation for us to join the wto , bill clinton was president of the united states , and newt gingrich , congressman gingrich , thought it was important to have a mechanism in place where the congress can exercise its independent authority over trade and that we should have an opportunity to carry out that responsibility by evaluating whether we want to stay in the world trade organization or not .  mr. speaker , i must tell my colleagues that when that issue was before us i had mixed thoughts as to whether we should have a nuclear option of withdrawing from the wto or whether there are more effective ways for congress to exercise its constitutional responsibility in an independent way over trade .  i must tell my colleagues that i think that this process is going to be helpful .  so let me make it clear .  i support the resolution to bring forward h. j. res. 27 that has come out of the committee on rules .  i very much oppose the passage of h. j. res. 27 , which would withdraw us from the wto .  as the gentleman from california ( mr. dreier )  pointed out and as the gentlewoman from california ( ms. matsui )  pointed out , it is in the united states ' interests to be in a rules-based trading system , and we need to make sure that we continue united states participation within the wto .  however , we also need to understand that we need to improve and make more effective the wto , and we also need to strengthen the manner in which we review the operations of the wto .  we have had legislation that we could have acted on that would do that .  i heard the gentleman from california ( mr. dreier )  give his analysis of the rulings within the wto .  quite frankly , my score sheet is different .  in two-thirds of the cases that have gone to dispute resolution panels or appellate panels , we have seen that they have overreached .  that is , they have gone beyond the negotiated terms and ruled against u.s. interests .  i think we should have a review process of the wto dispute settlement process .  senator dole had suggested that when he was in the united states senate .  i think we should look at that , and that would be a more effective way to have a continuing review in carrying out our responsibility as to whether the wto is acting effectively to open up markets to all producers and manufacturers and farmers .  we also need to look at the enforcement of our trade rules .  we need to spend more effort on enforcement .  china 's manipulation of currency should be a direct interest to this body .  the protection of intellectual property rights of american companies should be more aggressively pursued .  we need to be more aggressive against european subsidies .  we need to deal with the enforcement of our antidumping laws .  all this can be done and should be done , and we should not wait every 5 years in order to review that .  we also need to expand the opportunities within the doha round that will be presented to us .  we have to help u.s. service industries so they can gain access to foreign markets .  we need to work on tariff and nontariff barriers for u.s. manufacturers .  so , mr. speaker , i urge my colleagues to vote for this resolution , to vote against house joint resolution 27 so that we can move forward to improving the wto .  i urge us to look at ways in which we can help u.s. manufacturers , u.s. producers , and u.s. farmers to gain greater access to the international markets .  we need to do that on an ongoing basis , and the congress needs to exercise its authority to make sure that we are as aggressive as possible at opening up markets for u.s. interests .  mr. speaker , i yield myself such time as i may consume .  mr. speaker , let me first point out to those who may be following this debate why we are here today .  i am sure people are wondering why we have a resolution on the floor that would withdraw us from the wto and how that comes to the floor from a recommendation of the committee of jurisdiction that it be reported unfavorably , that is , that we vote against this resolution .  the reason we have this resolution before us is that 10 years ago we passed legislation to gain access to the wto .  at that time bill clinton was the president of the united states .  congressman gingrich thought it was important that because the legislative branch of government is the branch responsible for trade that there be a review process every 5 years as to whether we should remain within the wto , to give congress the ability to exercise its constitutional responsibility to oversight and be responsible for trade .  at that time , mr. speaker , i must tell the members i had certain concerns as to why we would want to have basically a nuclear option in pulling out from the wto .  today , i am pleased that we can review the wto because i think it is important for us to have a debate as to where we are in the wto .  i would suggest , though , we should have a more sophisticated review process than just to vote to withdraw from the wto .  as the ranking democrat on the trade subcommittee working with the gentleman from florida ( mr. shaw )  , we very much oppose this resolution and urge the rejection of the resolution .  we believe it is in the interest of the united states to be in a rules-based trading system and to withdraw from a rules-based trading system would be folly , it would be wrong .  do we need to improve it ?  yes , we do need to improve the wto .  can we strengthen it ?  yes , we need to strengthen it .  quite frankly , i think that we should be working more aggressively with our trading partners to enforce our existing trade rules .  when we see the manipulation of currency by china and we take no action against it , that is wrong .  when we see other countries infringe on our intellectual property rights and we do not enforce our existing rules to make sure that we do not allow the stealing of our intellectual property rights , that is wrong .  when we see europe provide subsidies for everything from aircraft to agriculture products and we do not take efficient action against them , that is wrong .  when we do not enforce our own anti-dumping laws which are permitted to be enforced to stop the surge of products into this country , that is wrong .  so , mr. speaker , i do think we need to strengthen these laws , but it would be wrong for us to withdraw .  we want a rules-based system , but we want to strengthen that system .  mr. speaker , quite frankly , i think we should be spending more time talking about the doha round .  that is the next stage of trying to move internationally under the wto to expand opportunity for american manufacturers , farmers , and producers .  the so-called doha development agenda negotiations have reached a critical phase .  it is generally agreed that in order to have a successful meeting of the ministers this december in hong kong , the members of the wto will have to come to a significant level of agreement by july on three key areas .  first , agriculture .  i must tell the members i am concerned we have not made anywhere near the progress on agriculture that we need to do .  i welcomed the announcement last week that the next director-general of the wto will be pascal lamy , the former trade commissioner of eu , who comes from france .  obviously , mr. lamy will have a special burden to demonstrate that he can make progress in this area where the european union has been so outrageous in its subsidies .  we need to narrow that gap .  we will wait to see whether , in fact , that can be accomplished .  the second area is in manufactured goods .  there are two challenges here : tariff reductions particularly by the advanced developing countries and the elimination of the so-called nontariff barriers , the ntbs .  and in both of these areas , much work remains to be done if we are going to have a successful doha round .  i am particularly concerned about the negotiations on the ntbs which lie far behind at this time .  this is a critical area for u.s. manufacturing , particularly in large markets such as japan , korea , and china .  and , finally , in the area of services , we are far behind where we should be in expanding opportunity for services by u.s. companies in other markets .  i hope that our negotiators will be able to make up for lost time in the next couple of months so that an ambitious services package will be approved in hong kong .  there is one other area i want to mention , mr. speaker , as we review our participation in the wto , and that is the dispute settlement system .  the dispute settlement system is absolutely critical to a successful wto .  i must tell the members i have major concerns as to how the dispute resolution system is working within the wto .  under the old gatt system , silence in an agreement meant that a country could do what it deemed appropriate .  under the decisions of the appellate body and the panels of the wto , silence has been altered to mean that the appellate body and panels do what they think is appropriate .  that is just wrong .  the number of cases are disturbing .  in 33 cases brought against the united states since 1995 , panels or the appellate body have overreached , overreached , in 22 of them .  that is two-thirds .  we need to have a way to review what the appellate body and dispute resolution panels are doing , and we are not doing that .  the consequences of this overreaching are clear .  in 10 years the wto has not affirmed a single safeguard measure as applied by the united states or any other country .  in trade remedy cases involving the united states , anti-dumping duties , countervailing duty measures , and safeguard cases , the wto has upheld the united states decision in two of 17 cases .  that is an 88 percent loss ratio , clearly one that we need to take a better look at .  a growing number of observers are coming to recognize that the extraordinary loss rate is because the wto panels and its appellate body do not respect the letter of the wto agreements and are filling in the gaps beyond what the u.s. negotiators agreed to in the uruguay round .  mr. speaker , i mention this because this is another area that we have to make up for lost ground in our negotiations under the wto .  so make no mistake about it , we should reject this resolution overwhelmingly because it is in the interest of the united states to participate in a rules-based international trading system .  i represent a community that includes the port of baltimore .  i want products coming into the united states .  i also want products leaving the united states through the port of baltimore .  it is important for our economy .  but we have to do a better job in our negotiations within the wto , and that is what we need to concentrate on .  that is what we need to work together on .  and if we do that , it will be a win-win for this nation .  we will be able to increase jobs through manufacturing , through production , and through farming .  mr. speaker , i reserve the balance of my time .  mr. speaker , i yield myself such time as i may consume .  mr. speaker , first let me say that i agree with my colleague that we should be negotiating higher labor standards , at least international labor standards ; but i would suggest the way to do that is engagement , not to pull out of the wto and to do better in our bilateral agreements .  i agree with him on cafta and to elevate the wto to do better on international standards .  the withdrawal would leave these countries without any opportunity to improve labor standards .  mr. speaker , i yield myself the balance of my time .  mr. speaker , i once again rise to urge my colleagues to reject this resolution .  it is important that we work within a rules-based trading system in order to expand opportunities .  only by working within a rules-based trading system can we raise the international bar on labor standards , on environmental standards .  if we were to pull out of the wto , we would have no opportunity to raise at all the labor standards in other countries or the environmental standards .  we need to be within a rules-based trading system to reduce barriers .  the u.s. market is the most open market .  we want our trading partners to open up their markets .  staying within the wto offers us that opportunity .  we need effective enforcement of our agreements .  we need to work within the wto in order to accomplish those objectives .  and , mr. speaker , here is an area where we must exercise more of our responsibility by changing laws and strengthening laws so that we can enforce the obligations that we have negotiated within the wto .  i will be introducing legislation to do that , and i urge my colleagues to work with me so that we can enforce the agreements that we have reached with other countries .  mr. speaker , i urge my colleagues to reject this resolution .  let us work together to open up markets .  mr. speaker , i believe that is unfair .  i agree with my colleague completely .  the question is , why are we not negotiating with our trading partners to do something about that ?  mr. speaker , the economic disaster wrought by a radical free trade policy on the working people of america is well documented , but i am going to focus on another aspect of this wto agreement that the previous gentleman spoke about .  he said that the secretive dispute resolution panel , which has no conflict-of-interest rules , does not allow outside interveners , only allows the two representative governments into the room , and deliberates secretly and comes up with a binding , a binding , decision and can not change u.s. laws .  now , i raised this issue with the clinton administration when they negotiated this misbegotten agreement ; and i said , how can you enter us into an agreement where secretive panels can preempt our laws ?  they said , oh , you do not understand , you are wrong , just like the gentleman before me .  yes , it is technically true , they can not reach into the united states and change a law .  we can , if they find our rule to be non-wto compliant , which they have more than 90 percent of the time when complaints are brought against the united states of america , we have an option .  we can repeal the law , or we can pay a fine to keep it , a huge fine , in many cases .  so environmental protection , consumer protection , buy america , buy oregon , buy your state , all of those things , we can have those laws .  that is right .  he is technically right .  we just have to pay massive penalties to foreign governments to keep them .  this is an extraordinary undermining of the sovereignty of the united states of america and the interests of the american people .  this is not about free trade ; this is about corporate-managed trade through a secretive body which is dominated by those very same corporations and many dictatorial governments around the world ; and the u.s. is bound by their secretive decisions .  this is absolutely outrageous .  to date , the wto has ruled u.s. policies illegal 42 out of 48 cases , 85.7 percent that has been brought against us .  they ruled illegal regulation issued under the clean air act ; the united states tax code ; laws to protect companies from unfair dumping or subsidized foreign products , among others .  and it is true .  we can keep those laws if we are willing to pay massive fines to keep them .  now , what kind of sovereignty is that ?  next in their sights are buy america laws , those referenced by the gentleman from the carolinas .  what he said is he does not want to see a social security program administered from china .  now , people would have thought that was a weird thing to say .  no .  the wto requires we can not discriminate in terms of who the vendors will be .  in fact , homeland security can be provided by the chinese , or maybe even by iran , under the rules of the wto .  will that not be just peachy ?  this is an extraordinarily radical agreement which we do not need .  the u.s. did just fine as the greatest trading nation in the world with bilateral agreements .  we can go back to that system , and we can do better than we are doing under this so-called rules-based system .  mr. speaker , i rise today in opposition to house joint resolution 27 .  withdrawing from the world trade organization ( wto ) would be an abandonment of america 's leadership in trade and an economic disaster for our nation .  for decades , the united states has been the leading voice in the world for the free market system and economic cooperation among nations because capitalism works for america .  we were one of the founders of the general agreement on tariffs and trade as well as its successor , the wto .  america has consistently pushed for a rational , rules-based approach in dealing with international trade because we know our unique , competitive , vibrant , and innovative economy will allow most u.s. economic sectors to compete successfully against any nation provided we have a fair playing field and open access to foreign markets .  if we abandon the wto , we abandon those years of leadership in trade .  do we want the europeans or the japanese to be the economic model other nations look to emulate ?  do we really want them to decide the rules by which the rest of the world economy will run ?  if we shut ourselves out of the process , we put our farmers , manufacturers , businesses , an workers at a strategic disadvantage compared to others in the world .  north carolina 's economy depends on exports , and we need to break down barriers to overseas markets so that our technology , agriculture , manufacturing and other sectors can expand on our progress in international competition .  studies show that one in five manufacturing jobs in north carolina depend on exports .  these jobs on average pay 13-18 percent more than the u.s. average .  every $ 1 billion in exports creates 20 , 000 jobs in the united states .  the united states represents only 4.7 percent of the world population .  if we want our economy to continue to grow , we need to be able to sell to the other 95.3 percent of the world .  the wto , for all its flaws and faults , remains the best venue for leveling the playing field and gaining access to new markets .  that is why i urge my colleagues to vote down this resolution .  mr. speaker , i rise today to express my concerns about h. res. 27 .  h. res. 27 would withdrawal the united states from participation in the world trade organization .  i did not support a similar resolution five years ago , and i do not support this resolution today , international trade is not just inevitable , it is a good thing .  we live in a world today where more people can afford ever cheaper goods .  but lowering the cost of goods and increasing their availability is not the single goal of trade .  trade done right helps lift the global standard of living and works to protect the irreplaceable environment we inherited .  trade is about values .  i want to make sure the united states not only exports our-world class agriculture , but also our respect for the natural environment and enforceable labor laws .  we should make sure we export the goods we produce and not the workers who produce them .  that is why we must use the wto to address these labor and environmental concerns .  but if we walk away from the wto , we wo n't be able to address any of these issues , where else can we give voice to issues of child labor or environmentally destructive practices of some industries ?  the wto -- imperfect as it may be -- is the forum that we , along with the other members of the international community , established to enforce trade rules and more importantly allow for an open dialogue on the trade issues that concern us .  we need to realize that even if there are legitimate problems with the wto , and i agree that some exist , the solution is not to unilaterally withdraw from the wto .  withdrawing from the wto would not help to solve any of these problems .  not one .  we can not stop trade , and we can not end the global economy .  what we can do is work within the world trade organization to address these concerns .  we should not allow any others to dictate to us about what is in our national interest , but we must recognize that we can not accomplish our national goals in isolation from the rest of the world .  we can only work to protect american workers from anticompetitive practices of foreign countries from within the wto , not by sitting on the sidelines .  we should be working with our trade partners and with the wto to enforce our existing trade rules .  i urge my colleagues to vote against this resolution .  mr. speaker , i thank the gentleman for yielding me time .  mr. speaker , i rise today to stress the importance of our country 's participation in the world trade organization .  right now , it seems this resolution is destined for rejection .  but addressing it today does give us a much-needed opportunity to focus on the wto and how the u.s. can maximize its membership for the benefit of u.s. firms , workers and farmers .  the success of u.s. participation in the wto should be measured by our ability to liberalize markets and set fair trade rules for all wto members .  clearly , the united states has benefited greatly from its wto membership and plays a leading role in shaping the way the world trades today .  since the creation of the wto , u.s. exports and overall trade have expanded significantly , with a $ 283 billion or 64 percent increase in u.s. manufacturing exports ; a $ 139 billion or a 70 percent increase in u.s. services exports ; and an $ 18 billion or 39 percent increase in u.s. agricultural exports .  once wto agreements are set and commitments are made , however , it is crucial that the u.s. ensure that the countries involved live up to their part of the deal .  this is where we have fallen short .  here , the u.s. has several concerns , such as china 's failure to follow through with its commitments to ensure that domestic and foreign firms can distribute products within that country as of december 2004 ; many countries have failed to meet their trips commitments and have not effectively enforced intellectual property rights and the protection of data privacy ; there is concern regarding the establishment of standards , licensing and customs barriers , including the eu 's customs procedures and its proposed new chemical regulations ; and there is concern about the continued proliferation of many agricultural barriers , such as the unscientific barriers to many agricultural products in europe , china and elsewhere .  the united states should continue to insist that all wto members implement the wto agreements in a timely and comprehensive manner .  like many of my colleagues , i hope the wto will successfully conclude the doha development round and continue to contribute to the dynamic global marketplace as a growth engine for wto member economies .  however , in the doha development round , many developing countries expressed concerns regarding implementation of some commitments , and they have sought extensions and delays .  here , technical assistance and support for capacity building are critical tools needed to advance implementation goals .  i will continue to work with my colleagues on the committee on ways and means and in the congress to ensure that the u.s. provides technical support and capacity building measures to assist developing countries in meeting their wto commitments .  if trade is to be a tool of development and growth for our developing-country trading partners , we must play a central role in helping the wto facilitate compliance with member obligations .  i stress this today because i want our new ustr ambassador portman to know that this is and should always be a priority for the united states at the world trade organization .  mr. speaker , i concur with my ways and means democratic colleagues regarding the united states continued participation in the world trade organization ( wto ) .  i do not agree with house joint resolution 27 and withdrawing congressional approval of the wto agreement .  our society is becoming global .  there is growing interdependence of countries , resulting from the increasing integration of trade , finance , people , and ideas in one global marketplace .  so , as international trade expands due to globalization , we need a set of trade rules and an international body to enforce those rules -- the wto .  the wto , and its predecessor , the general agreement on tariffs and trade , have opened foreign markets around the world for u.s. goods and services .  this has created new opportunities for u.s. businesses , farmers , manufacturers , and workers .  the u.s. economy is stronger because of the wto .  there are improvements , however , that can be made .  there has to be better collaboration in understanding the relationship between trade and labor issues .  we must ensure that core labor standards are enforced , particularly in developing economies .  we must have more meaningful dialogue about environmental issues in trade discussions .  we can accomplish this by fully integrating the work of the wto committee on trade and environment into the work of wto negotiating groups .  furthermore , the wto needs to be fully aware of the vulnerability of our domestic steel industry .  ohio is the nation 's leading producer of steel .  china 's strategy of undervaluing their currency , the yuan , and dumping steel into our domestic market puts ohioans in danger of losing their jobs .  ohio manufacturers produced $ 4.59 billion in value-added steel production and processing last year .  the steel industry generates over 110 , 000 jobs in the state of ohio .  we can not compromise the strength of our domestic steel industry .  the wto must be cognizant of the trade challenges faced by u.s. steel manufacturers .  i believe that the united states should continue to be a member of the wto and remain committed to free trade .  however , we must ensure that our domestic concerns are properly addressed within the wto .  mr. speaker , i thank the gentleman for yielding me time .  mr. speaker , i strongly oppose the pull-out of the u.s. of the wto .  this is a global economy that we live in .  we have got to be at the table to work with the companies and work with the countries that are taking our jobs , and i believe the pull-out is the wrong thing to do .  should it be strengthened ?  yes , it should and the administration should reject all principles that would make our trade laws weaker .  if we talk about intellectual property rights , we need to enforce those that are in there .  and the bush administration and our u.s. administration , regardless of who sits in that white house , must make sure that those property rights are enforced internationally , and that is what the wto should be about .  in 1995 when the wto was established , i thought then and i do hope now that dispute resolution procedures would be those where we could come to the table to resolve some of those disputes .  the dispute process has become too cumbersome , too lengthy ; and many times we find our companies , u.s. companies , not taking advantage and being very much put out of business .  the steel industries in my district , too much dumping from some other countries into america .  we ought to rectify that so that u.s. companies can take u.s. companies and that we be able to employ our citizens .  too many dislocated workers , the only way to address this is to stay in the wto to work with the other countries .  and our administration must see that our rules , our trade laws , our employees ' rights are saved .  we want to upgrade and lift up other countries , but we must save america .  america is in crisis .  our workers , too many have lost their jobs and many more to come .  i represent general motors , and this week they announced the closing of more plants , dislocating more workers and at the same time put $ 2 billion in china last year .  so i say stay in the wto ; make it better .  this is a world economy , and the u.s. is the most powerful .  i would hope that as we move forward in this discussion , and i know the vote will be overwhelming that we stay , that we build it and that we make sure that the countries that are taking our jobs have a responsibility to the workers of this country .  however members intend to vote on the resolution before us , the issue of trade remedies under the rules established by the world trade organization ( wto ) is of paramount concern to the industries of my district in the years ahead .  how we address this issue will be an important factor in determining whether we can retain support for open markets and the international trading system as we know it .  countries like china , japan , and india that have most consistently dumped in this market and violated international rules are pushed hard to have those disciplines eviscerated .  that would be a disaster for u.s. manufacturers , agricultural producers and workers .  anti-dumping and anti-subsidy laws have already been critically weakened as a result of groundless wto dispute resolution decisions .  if we see yet another new trade agreement that limits the use of these laws , i am afraid they will become completely ineffective .  our trading partners , in the name of free trade , have been effective in putting forward a number of specific proposals that are designed to weaken u.s. trade laws .  congress is on record as opposing these efforts and i welcome this opportunity to advocate that our top priority should be to preserve core trade disciplines .  however , our trade negotiators have not offered meaningful proposals to challenge those who would weaken our trade remedy laws .  this is a recipe for failure .  if the administration comes back with an agreement that waters down our trade remedy laws even further , i am confident we will see a strong backlash in congress -- and a major effect on support for any new trade agreements .  support for the wto can not be taken for granted in congress or in this country if we can not maintain the assurance that unfair trade can and will be remedied .  i urge the administration to focus on this issue and to reject any wto deal that would weaken u.s. trade remedy laws .  otherwise , we may well see the next wto vote have a very different outcome than is likely today .  mr. speaker , i could hardly believe my ears to hear one of my colleagues say that america does not need protection from the wto .  we have lost almost 3 million manufacturing jobs .  tell that to those millions of families who have seen their lives destroyed by this trade structure which is based , inherently based , on inequality .  we have a $ 617 billion trade deficit .  america does not need protection ?  we have workers who are struggling to save their homes ; but these trade agreements are causing jobs to be moved out and people do not have the opportunity to save their homes .  i have been all over this country , and i have seen padlocks on gates and grass growing in parking lots where they used to make steel , where they used to make cars , where they used to washing machines , where they used to make bicycles .  america does not need protection ?  yes , it is time for us to get out of the wto because the wto has set the stage for a driving down of the quality of life in this country .  everyone in this house knows that we can not write into our laws that workers ' rights must be regarded , let us say , in china .  i want someone here to contradict that because if we put that china must have the right to organize in any of their conduct of commerce in their country , that would be ruled wto illegal and the united states would be subject to a fine or sanctions by the wto just for standing up for workers ' rights .  there is a moral imperative here , and that imperative is as old as this country .  but it is also consistent with basic christian morality , and may i quote from a papal encyclical , leo xiii , 1891 in rerum novarum said , `` let the working man and the employer make free agreement and in particular let them agree freely as to wages .  nevertheless , there underlies a dictate of natural justice more imperious and ancient than any bargain between man and man , namely , that wages ought not be insufficient to support a frugal and well-behaved wage earner if through necessity or fear of a worse evil the workman accept harder conditions because an employer or contractor will afford him no better .  he is made a victim of force and injustice. '' i maintain that the wto helps to keep in place a structure of force and injustice against workers because we in this country can not pass laws that would lift the yoke of this force and injustice off workers anywhere in the world because the wto does not permit , does not permit any type of workers ' rights to be included or to be regarded .  they are wto illegal .  we can not pass workers ' rights and put them in our trade agreements .  another papal encyclical from pope paul vi , populorum progressio : `` but it is unfortunate that on these new conditions of society , a system has been constructed which considers profit as the key motive for economic progress , competition as the supreme law of economics , and private ownership with the means of production as an absolute right that has no limits and carries no corresponding social obligation. '' he goes on to say that `` this leads to a dictatorship rightly denounced by pious xi by producing the international imperialism of money. '' there is a moral imperative here that we have to recognize that we need trade agreements that have workers ' rights , human rights , and environmental quality principles ; and we can not have that with the wto .  it is time to get out of the wto and set up a trade structure based on those principles .  mr. speaker , i rise in opposition to the proposal that we withdraw from the wto .  i urge that we look at this basic question : on balance , would we be better off if there were not a wto ?  and i think the answer to that is we would not be .  expanded trade has occurred in this country and in this world .  it is not a win-win proposition , as some people like to say .  there are losers as well as winners , both individually and in nations .  it is not an easy proposition , expanded trade .  however , globalization is here to stay .  there is no turning back the clock .  the question is to try to make the hands tick well and in the right direction .  there has been some argument about sovereignty .  it is not true that wto decisions do not impact u.s. laws .  that is not true .  i supported the gatt agreement ; i helped to shape the implementation language .  did it have some impact on u.s. laws ?  yes .  were there some requirements that u.s. laws be changed ?  yes .  by definition , tariff agreements require changes in laws here and everywhere else , unless they are decreed by edict .  the wto changed from gatt , and so now there is a final dispute settlement mechanism .  i think on balance that was a good idea because , otherwise , every country could veto , and that was not workable .  but we have to look at the problems as well as the promise , the problems as well as the achievements .  the dispute settlement system is flawed .  the answer is not to withdraw from the wto ; it is to work hard to change the dispute settlement system .  as was said earlier , it is very opaque , that is true .  there is not an openness that there should be ; and when it comes to our safeguard provisions that many of us worked hard to put into law , the gentleman from maryland ( mr. cardin )  , who is the ranking member , was part and parcel of that , as well as the gentleman from new york ( mr. rangel )  , and those on the republican side , we worked hard to put safeguards in .  every challenge to safeguards has been upheld by the wto .  we have lost every case .  we have not known what went into the consideration of the decision fully , we did not see all the briefs , and we did not know the basis for the decisions , in many cases .  in some cases they went beyond the language of the wto agreements .  a wall street journal article earlier this month had this statement about panelists : `` they do n't have time to develop expertise and procedural and technical aspects of the dispute settlement system. '' and we are going to have them judge the boeing , the complicated boeing case , for example ?  we need to change , and work harder to change , the dispute settlement system , not to withdraw from the wto .  so there are some major structural problems .  also , relating to china , i have been very dissatisfied with the way the wto has handled the annual review of china 's obligations that we worked so hard to bring about .  part of the problem is with the wto in geneva , part of the problem has been our administration that has not vigorously , and the gentleman from maryland ( mr. cardin )  has worked so hard to illustrate this , the administration has not worked actively enough to get china to live up to its agreements .  so more needs to be done by the administration , and we have been losing too many cases , and we have been filing too few cases .  so my suggestion is that we focus today on the accomplishments , but also the barriers , to effective operation of the wto .  one issue the wto has totally failed to address relates to core labor standards .  on environment , they have kind of a group that looks at environmental issues .  on core labor standards , there has been resistance to address this .  years ago , there was a proposal by the clinton administration to set up a working group within the wto .  that was resisted , resisted by many , including developing nations .  i think now , as developing nations have to compete with each other , including china , where labor standards essentially are nonexistent , those developing nations are beginning to say , well , maybe the wto should address it .  but it has not .  the argument was , okay , let us use bilateral agreements as building blocks in a number of areas , including core labor standards .  and that is why i want to say just a few words now about the failure of this administration to use bilateral agreements effectively as a building block when it comes to basic core labor standards , the ilo labor standards , child labor , forced labor , nondiscrimination , and the right of workers to assemble , to organize , to have unions if they desire , and to bargain collectively .  cafta is a vital agreement in terms of where globalization is going .  in latin america , there is growing unrest and changes in government , in part because of the failure to have the large numbers of people , the largest proportion of people , share in the benefits of globalization .  so what did this administration do under these circumstances ?  it negotiates a standard , enforce your own laws .  enforce your own laws is only used as to core labor standards , not as to intellectual property or tariffs or anything else .  and the tragedy of it is that the laws in central america , to some extent the dominican republic , do not meet the basic standards giving people the freedom in the labor market .  that is the basic fact .  the ilo reports say so , despite what the administration tries to say .  their own state department reports say that , despite what the administration and our new ustr , mr. portman , said this morning .  what is at stake is the development of a middle class that is so critical .  and i am going to say more about this later today .  the experience in countries is that workers are a critical part of the evolution towards a strong middle class .  there was a reference by mr. portman  to jordan .  and what he said , that cafta is stronger than jordan , it is simply not true .  it is not correct .  jordan has reference in its agreement to the core labor standards , that is not true of cafta .  and the enforcement capability in jordan was left to each country to undertake .  so i just wanted to comment on this , because the bilateral agreements were supposed to be a building block where the wto did not address an issue ; and there is a failure at this critical point of globalization , a critical missed opportunity in terms of helping the benefits of globilization being widely shared .  i want to close , and i will say more about this later today , why it matters to the u.s. it matters in terms of central america , which , as i say , has such income disparities that are true of latin america generally .  what it means is , as to central america , if workers are not going to be able to participate , to have freedom , to be able to associate , to become a part of the workplace , and are going to remain in poverty , it is bad for those workers , it is bad for those countries that desperately need a middle class , it is bad for our workers who will not compete with countries where workers are suppressed , and it is bad for our companies if there is no strong middle class to purchase our products .  so i am deeply disappointed by this effort to skirt this basic issue at this important time .  a building block ?  no , cafta moves backwards from the present status instead of moving forward .  and this notion that we are going to give more money to our labor department to enforce the laws , when they are cutting the budget , this congress and the administration , are cutting these moneys for ilab and other parts of the labor department .  you can not pour money to enforce inadequate laws and have it work out well .  so , in a word , what we need is a trade policy built on a bipartisan foundation , which is not true today .  what we need is a trade policy that helps move globalization forward , that makes sure that more and more people share in the benefits of globalization .  pulling out of the wto is not going to accomplish that .  instead , we need to work together to make the wto more responsive in all respects and also to make sure that our bilateral agreements meet the challenges that the wto is not meeting today .  on the latter , this administration continues to fail .  mr. speaker , i rise today to urge my colleagues to reject any attempts to withdraw the united states from the wto and vote no on final passage .  when instituted correctly and fairly , trade agreements open up foreign markets to u.s. goods , create new opportunities for companies and their employees , and lift the standard of living for people in the country with whom we are trading .  economists estimate that cutting trade barriers in agriculture , manufacturing and services by one-third would boost the world economy by $ 613 billion , equivalent to adding an economy the size of canada to the world economy .  the wto is needed to monitor this process and ensure a level playing field .  however , in certain cases , there is not a level playing field .  a great example of this is airbus .  airbus is currently the world 's leading manufacturer of civil aircraft , with about 50 percent of global market share .  airbus received approximately $ 30 billion in market-distorting subsidies from the european governments , including launch aid , infrastructure support , debt forgiveness , equity infusions , and research and development funding .  these subsidies , in particular launch aid , have lowered airbus ' development costs and shifted the risk of aircraft development to european governments , and thereby enabled airbus to develop aircraft at an accelerated pace and sell these aircraft at prices and on terms that would otherwise be unsustainable .  these unfair actions put boeing at a major disadvantage and leads to a negative impact to workers and businesses in this country .  by most conservative estimates , the unfair subsidies that airbus receives have led the united states to losing at least 60 , 000 high-paying jobs .  as a member of the house committee on international relations and the fact that john f. kennedy international airport is the economic engine of my district , it is imperative that this body support ustr ambassador robert portman 's efforts to have a wto dispute resolution panel put an end to the unfair subsidies to airbus .  mr. speaker , there are many reasons to question whether or not the united states should remain in the wto .  among them : the current trade deficit of $ 618 billion ; the disappointing enforcement efforts of the administration on past trade agreements ; and the lack of consensus in the wto on how to move forward with the doha round .  but at this point , it is too early to give up hope .  the wto is essentially our only chance to address the major distortions in world agricultural markets .  the organization for economic cooperation and development is a group of 30 countries including the united states , most european countries , japan , mexico , australia , and new zealand .  it is widely regarded as the most reliable source of objective information comparing subsidy levels of various developed countries .  perhaps the most useful number the oecd calculates is one that compares the amount of each dollar that a farmer receives due to government policies , such as tariffs or farm support programs , versus the amount the farmer receives from the marketplace .  they call this number the producer support estimate .  in its 2004 report on agriculture , the oecd notes that the producer support estimate for the united states decreased in recent years , and that this is a part of a long term trend in u.s. agricultural policy .  as the oecd points out , support in the u.s. to producers decreased from 25 % in 1986-88 to 18 % in 2003 , and has remained below the oecd average .  europe has increased support to 37 % in 2003 .  what this means is that european farmers rely on the government for twice as much of their income as do u.s. farmers -- or 37 cents from each dollar versus 18 cents for u.s. farmers .  what relevance do all these statistics have to the current wto negotiations on agriculture ?  the framework agreement provides for harmonization in all three major areas of negotiation .  on domestic subsidies , the framework states : `` specifically , higher levels of permitted trade-distorting domestic support will be subject to deeper cuts. '' in the section of the wto framework agreement on export competition , it is agreed that export subsidies will be eliminated .  the eu remains the largest user of export subsidies in the world , and the elimination of export subsidies will eventually apply additional pressure to its domestic subsidy programs .  in the section of the wto framework agreement dealing with market access , there is language calling for a tiered formula with `` deeper cuts in higher tariffs '' .  average u.s. tariffs on agricultural products is 12 % versus 30 % in europe and 50 % in japan .  the world average tariff on agricultural products is 62 % .  this means that the u.s. tariffs on agricultural imports should be cut less than european , japanese , or other countries tariffs on our exports to them .  as with all negotiations , the framework agreement reached last july on agriculture allows for a best-case and worst-case scenario to exist , which future negotiations will determine .  in these negotiations , we will depend on our u.s. trade representative to achieve a result that upholds the principle of harmonization that was set out in the original u.s. negotiating position in june of 2000 .  if that principle is upheld in the final agreement , we will be glad we rejected this resolution today .  if not , it will be time to give serious consideration to leaving the wto .  mr. speaker , i rise in opposition to h.j. res , 27 , a resolution withdrawing the u.s. approval of the wto .  while there are legitimate disagreements about how world trade is organized , and how trade agreements are negotiated , i think that it is important to have a forum and structure for international trade .  and that 's the world trade organization .  let 's not overlook the fact that in the 10 years since the wto 's inception , we 've seen global tariff rates fall and u.s. exports rise .  moreover , ninety-seven percent of our international trade is with other wto nations .  withdrawing from the wto would upset relations with these important partners and markets .  that being said , the wto is by no means a perfect institution .  it is important that we are having this debate today .  in the ongoing doha round of trade negotiations , the u.s. and our global partners have the opportunity to substantially improve the wto by reaching agreements on service negotiations , the reduction of tariffs and non-tariff barriers , and the authority of the wto dispute resolution system .  we need to see these negotiations through to a satisfactory end .  nevertheless , despite its imperfections , the wto provides a stable and predictable global trading system that benefits the u.s. both economically and strategically .  and although i will be watching the doha round with keen interest , i support u.s. participation in the wto and therefore oppose this resolution .  mr. speaker , i will vote against this resolution because it is a little too radical for where i am now , but i am tempted to vote for it because of the failure of our current policies and the blindness of those who defend them .  those who defend our current policies acknowledge that free trade puts pressure on countries to race to the bottom on environmental and labor standards so they can be the low-cost , high-value producer .  but the real disconnect is between the theory of free trade and on-the-ground business reality .  those who defend the wto live in a world of theory in which business and consumers will buy american goods if they are good values , subject only to the written transparent regulations and tariff laws of their country .  this theory is true in the united states where our businesses and consumers are happy to buy .  we have lowered our tariffs , we have lowered our regulations and barriers , and there has been an explosion of imports to the united states .  but the theory is false as to china and many other nations .  in those countries , their written laws are almost irrelevant ; and so we negotiate hard , we open our markets in return for a change of china 's written laws , and then we are surprised when changing those laws does nothing to open their markets and the average person in china buys less than 3 cents , i believe it is , of goods and services from america every day .  why is this ?  because their businesses are told orally , do not buy from america unless you get a co-production agreement , do not buy from america unless you get a disclosure of our technology and our manufacturing techniques .  so when an airline in the united states goes to decide which airplane to buy , it does so on economic factors .  when china buys , they demand that more and more production be shifted to china .  no wonder we have this huge trade deficit and the dollar is certainly in peril .  mr. speaker , i would like to clarify my opposition to h. j. res. 27 , a resolution to withdraw u.s. approval of the uruguay round agreement act establishing the world trade organization ( wto ) .  although i oppose the resolution , i am glad we are having this debate today .  the 1994 law that helped create the wto included an important provision that allows congress to reassess u.s. participation in the organization every five years .  the constantly shifting global trade landscape makes regular congressional review of u.s. participation in the wto especially critical .  like many of my constituents , i am concerned about investment and jobs moving to other countries that have weaker labor and environmental standards .  i am also concerned about the growing u.s. trade deficit , wto pressure to downgrade our consumer protections , and challenges to our federal laws posed by the wto 's closed dispute resolution tribunals .  but retaining u.s. participation in the wto does n't mean we ca n't or should n't work to improve global trading system .  the objective should be to mend it , not end it .  the wto is the only international organization dealing with the global rules of trade between nations .  over 90 percent of all world trade is conducted within the wto .  withdrawal from the wto would isolate the u.s. from the international economy .  it would also eliminate the best recourse american businesses and workers have when faced with unfair trade barriers : dispute resolution .  if we were to withdraw from the wto , other countries could impose unfair tariffs or other barriers to american goods , or `` dump '' goods , and we could only retaliate in return and risk getting into a potentially dangerous trade war .  if we want to grow and expand our economic opportunities , we must engage with the rest of the world .  i believe that abandoning a rules-based trade system would be detrimental to american families , workers , business , and national security .  we need to do all we can to ensure americans benefit from the global economy .  but shutting our doors on the wto is n't the answer .  mr. speaker , i thank the gentleman for yielding me time .  mr. speaker , in 1994 i supported the establishment of the wto .  i supported the establishment of it because the creation of the wto was supposed to lower trade barriers .  the wto was supposed to include developed and developing countries , and environmental and labor standards were expected to rise for all .  the wto was created with the assumption that the rules would be applied fairly to all .  today , i am voting against the wto because it has failed to deliver on any of its promises .  the wto was created by sovereign nations to create a true international trade community , but today the wto is manipulated by multinational corporations with a loyalty to nothing but their bottom line .  these multilaterals are patronizing , not patriotic .  they treat human labor as nothing more than disposable machinery .  the only discernable labor standard under the wto is exploitation .  under the wto there are two environmental standards , pollute and to spoil .  moreover , there is no transparency at the wto .  who is in charge ?  the wto is grossly prejudiced against u.s. interests .  as one of my colleagues mentioned earlier today , the u.s. has lost 42 of 48 cases .  i am proud to be an american citizen .  i understand , however , that the united states is not always right .  but only 12 1/2 percent of the time ?  worse , the wto struck down steel safeguards that were put in place after record levels of illegal steel dumping caused more than 40 steel companies into bankruptcy and more than 50 , 000 steel workers to lose their jobs .  in 1994 , the last full year before the wto came into existence , the united states had a trade deficit , unfortunately , of about $ 150 billion .  during 2004 the u.s. trade deficit hit an all-time high of $ 650 billion , an increase of 333 percent .  we have clearly benefited under the wto .  a more frightening figure is that the u.s. trade deficit last year with china alone was more than our trade deficit was with the entire world the year before the wto was created .  as we debate this resolution today , we will borrow an additional $ 1.7 billion in these 24 hours for our children to pay off for the rest of their lives just to finance the trade deficit we are accumulating today under the wanted wto .  i appreciate my colleague from vermont for bringing this resolution to the floor .  i support it and ask my colleagues to do so as well .  mr. speaker , i rise to support house joint resolution 27 to withdraw the united states from the world trade organization .  the wto is not about free trade or fair trade .  it is about corporate power .  wto rules allow america 's labor , environmental and public interest laws to be challenged by multinational corporations seeking profits and power .  other countries have also seen their domestic laws challenged in order to expand corporate power .  the wto sacrifices the rights of workers , the protection of the environment and the health and safety of working families .  wto rules support corporations to move their operations from one country to another in search of the cheapest labor and the least government regulation .  if a country enacts a minimum wage law , a corporation that does not want to pay a decent wage can simply move its factory to another country .  if workers in that country organize a labor union , the corporation can move the factory to a third country .  many corporations prefer to operate in countries such as the people 's republic of china , which outlaw independent labor organizations .  the wto has no restrictions on sweatshops , child labor , prison labor or slave labor .  wto rules promote investment opportunities for multinational corporations without regard to their impact on workers , the environment or the public interest .  countries ' labor , health and environmental laws can be challenged if they have a side effect of restricting trade .  in the 10 years since the wto was established , a wide variety of u.s. and foreign laws have been challenged .  with only two exceptions , every health , food safety and environmental law challenged at the wto has been ruled illegal .  meanwhile , multinational pharmaceutical companies have used wto intellectual property rules to deny poor countries the right to provide live-saving medicine to people with terrible diseases like hiv and aids .  they tried it with brazil .  the world protest against the attempt to keep brazil from using generic drugs to save lives , prevent hiv and aids was fought off because of the protest , and they had to back down .  but look what they did in south africa .  i wish i had time to tell my colleagues about it .  in 42 out of the 48 completed cases brought against the united states , the wto has labeled u.s. laws illegal .  u.s. laws ruled illegal by wto include tax laws , anti-dumping laws , sea turtle protections and clean air rules .  and when the wto ruled in favor of the united states in a case on bananas , it was to benefit who ?  a large corporation , chiquita , that has now driven grenada and some of these small countries into poverty .  we do not produce any bananas here in the united states .  we protected chiquita , who mistreats its workers in central america , and we put small caribbean farmers out of work .  mr. speaker , after the wto rules a country 's laws illegal , the wto authorizes economic sanctions that cost the country millions of dollars .  these sanctions put small businesses out of business and workers out of work .  history has proven that the wto does not prevent trade wars .  it authorizes trade wars .  the wto puts profits of the world 's wealthiest and most powerful corporations ahead of the health , safety and welfare and well-being of working families .  i urge my colleagues to support the wto withdrawal resolution .  it 's time to stop the global expansion of corporate power and put working families first .  mr. chairman , i thank the gentleman for yielding me this time .  i just want to respond to what i think was an inadvertent misstatement by the gentleman from indiana on what i think is an over-the-top provision of this bill , requiring a veto of any new or expanded peacekeeping operations in the security council .  he referred to it as an ability for the u.s. to withhold its forces for it .  but read the provision you have written : the president shall direct the united states permanent representative to the u.n .  to use the voice , the vote and the influence of the u.s. at the u.n .  to oppose the creation of a new or expansion of existing peacekeeping operations .  `` vote '' means `` veto '' at the security council .  you veto the peacekeeping operation , it does not happen .  the genocide in darfur continues , no matter what the political will is of the body , because we have only trained 60 , 000 of the 68 , 000 peacekeepers by the day this bill passes .  this has nothing to do with the debate about withholding dues as leverage .  this has to do with define our own national interests in the name of i do not know what .  it makes no sense , it is unconstitutional , and it should have been stricken from this bill .  mr. chairman , would it be fair to say that , in effect , his effort is an effort to gild the lily ?  madam chairman , i thank the gentleman from california ( mr. lantos )  for yielding me this time .  i want to congratulate the gentleman from illinois ( mr. hyde )  for his many years of service to this institution , again bringing forward a well-balanced bill .  i want to thank him and the gentleman from california ( mr. lantos )  for the foreign relations authorization act for fiscal years 2006 and 2007 .  madam chairman , i want to bring up two provisions that are in this authorization bill that relate to the work of our helsinki commission .  i note that the gentleman from new jersey ( mr. smith )  is on the floor , our chairman .  i work with him as the ranking democrat , and over the last several years we have raised priorities for the organization for security and cooperation in europe through our helsinki commission , and i am very pleased that this authorization bill carries out those priorities .  first let me point out that the bill authorizes $ 225 , 000 annually for the organization for security and cooperation in europe 's office of democratic institutions and human rights and $ 125 , 000 annually for general religious freedom programs that are administered by the osce office of democratic institutions and human rights .  this carries out a commitment that our commission brought forward in fighting anti-semitism and developing international meetings to deal with strategies to combat anti-semitism .  this authorization will help us accomplish those goals .  these are important initiatives .  i must point out that , although we have made progress , there is a lot more that needs to be done , and i am confident that by this authorization we will have the tools , at least in our country , to see to the implementation of these commitments .  h.r. 2601 regrets the lack of implementation by many of the osce participating states and their commitments to track and report on anti-semitic crimes and hate crimes .  in the last congress i was pleased to join with the gentleman from california ( mr. lantos )  and the gentleman from new jersey ( mr. smith )  , helsinki commission chairman , in working to enact the global anti-semitism review act of 2004 .  so i want to commend the chairman and the ranking member for authorizing resources in this bill to deal with that .  the second point i would just mention very briefly is the fact of expressing concern about restitution of property taken during the nazi era in poland .  i appreciate that also being included in this legislation .  madam chairman , i rise today in strong support of the foreign relations authorization act .  chairman hyde along with ranking member lantos crafted a bipartisan bill that was strongly supported by the house international relations committee .  i would also like to give my sincerest thanks to all the staff of the committee who have worked so hard to make sure that all the members of this committee had an opportunity to way in on the bill to make improvements that were important to us .  the committee has worked with me and my staff to make sure that language was included , which expresses the sense of congress that the president of the united states and the secretary of state should engage in an open dialogue with the government of poland to achieve a final and complete settlement for individuals and groups who had their private property seized by the nazis during world war ii or by the communist polish government after the war .  this clause simply calls on the government of poland to develop a final and complete settlement for private property that was seized or confiscated by the nazis during ww ii or by the communist government of poland after the war .  the president of poland alexsander kwanieski met with congressional leaders from the united states helsinki commission and said that he intended to draft a new law intended to provide compensation that would not discriminate based on residency or citizenship of an individual and it would be ready to take effect by the beginning of 2003 .  this clause calls on the president of the united states and the secretary of state to engage in an open dialogue with the government of poland and work with them to ensure that restitution legislation is implemented .  we are now in june of 2005 and limited action has been taken to resolve this situation .  these reparations need to be made immediately if they are to be of any benefit to many of the holocaust survivors .  another initiative that was included was regarding language to create a report on what the united states is doing to assist our friend and ally israel in their efforts to establish diplomatic relations .  as i 'm sure many of my colleagues in this committee are aware that a number of nations have not established full diplomatic relations with the state of israel .  israel currently maintains diplomatic relations with 160 countries .  thirty-three countries do not have any diplomatic relations with israel at all and one country has only limited relations .  the violence that has consumed israel , gaza and the west bank has only exacerbated this problem .  in order for israel to be a full member of the world community , it must establish diplomatic relations .  the israeli embassy tells me that israel is actively seeking to establish and upgrade their relations with several countries .  this has proven difficult with many of the islamic nations .  i believe the u.s. should be doing everything possible to help israel establish these relations and that is why i have authored this language .  another issue i worked on was the inclusion of a sense of congress on the need for an additional consular post in southern india .  with bangalore and hyderabad becoming booming high technology centers the need for the united states to have a close center to these areas is imperative .  i have also worked to include an authorization of funding to two well deserving groups , project children and cooperation ireland .  many of my colleagues will be familiar with this because you have taken summer interns from this program .  these two organizations have a long history of successfully developing people-to-people exchanges that encourage reconciliation and conflict resolution in northern ireland .  for over a decade , there has been a sustained bipartisan national policy to support ongoing efforts to end the civil conflict in the north of ireland .  this policy has included the direct involvement of both president clinton and president bush .  while the latest efforts to restore power sharing have fallen short and the political process is at a standstill , i believe that the united states must remain engaged in northern ireland at all levels to encourage peace and reconciliation .  with the assistance of the committee , i was able to include report language supporting the asian university for women .  the goal of this university is to prepare these women for positions of political , financial , cultural and social leadership across the globe .  by convening a new class of 500 women each year in a supportive , non-sectarian , intellectually rich and rigorous academic environment , the university eventually will generate a network of women professionals who will drive the development and enrichment of their countries and the region .  war is not the only way to fight terrorism , the education of women is one way of stopping the breeding of hate in the children around the world .  finally , on the issue of iraq , i was able to include by a bipartisan vote language calling on the president to put forth a plan for success in iraq .  this clause requests a plan from this administration on how we will be providing for a stable and secure iraqi government , military and police force that will allow the united states presence to be diminished .  by accomplishing these tasks , the united states would be taking a realistic and viable approach to longer term success in iraq .  i would like to thank the chairman and ranking members as well as their staffs for crafting a bill we should all be proud to support .  madam speaker , i also want to add to the remarks of the gentleman from florida ( mr. hastings )  and our ranking member , the gentleman from california ( mr. lantos )  , when it comes to the gentleman from illinois ( mr. hyde )  .  i have served with the chairman both on the committee on the judiciary and on the committee on international relations .  i have profound respect and deep affection for him , but i do not like his bill .  it is clear that there is a consensus that the united nations needs reform .  we want reform .  our allies want reform .  the secretary general wants reform .  just this week a congressionally created task force chaired by the former speaker of the house newt gingrich and the former majority leader senator george mitchell issued a report urging adoption of many of the proposals put forth by the secretary general ; but it did not recommend that congress withhold dues to serve as a catalyst to bring about those reforms .  presumably , they were in agreement with the eight former u.s. ambassadors to the united nations , both republican and democrat , who stated yesterday in a letter to the congressional leadership , and i would ask my colleagues to pay close attention to this particular excerpt , `` withholding u.s. dues to the united nations may sound like smart policy , but would be counterproductive .  it would create resentment , build animosity and actually strengthen opponents of reform .  it would place in jeopardy the reform initiatives most important to u.s. interests. '' remember , these are americans who represented our nation at the united nations .  they understand how the institution works .  they know how to get things done .  yes , madam speaker , i am optimistic that reform will occur , but it will not happen as a result of this bill , it will happen in spite of this bill .  if it were a thoughtful effort to effect change , why did the committee proceed before the gingrich-mitchell task force that we created and funded back in december even made its recommendations ?  no , this bill will not promote u.n .  reform , madam speaker .  it is more likely to undermine those efforts .  support for this bill will reinforce a growing belief that we are not committed to strengthening the united nations , to working with our like-minded allies to make it a more effective tool to promote our interests .  i recognize that some , a few , on the other side honestly believe we should end any participation , any u.s. participation in the united nations .  they prefer to go it alone , but they forget that without the united nations it would fall on us to do much of what the united nations is doing on the planet today , and that the united nations has supported the united states in some of our critical foreign policy needs .  it was the united nations that organized and ran the elections in iraq and in afghanistan and played a critical role in forcing the syrian withdrawal from lebanon .  the ambassadors are correct , resentment towards the united states will increase .  that is because what this bill simply says is unless you do everything we want , we will cut off your funds .  in other words , if you do not play the game according to our rules , we will take our ball and go home .  this take-it-or-leave-it approach does not help us , it hurts us .  a recent gao report stated , and again i am quoting , `` recent polling data show that anti-americanism is spreading and deepening around the world .  such anti-american sentiments can increase foreign public support for terrorism directed against the united states , impact the cost and effectiveness of military operations , weaken the united states ' ability to align with other nations in pursuit of common policy objectives , and dampen foreign publics ' enthusiasm for u.s. business services and products. '' that is a quote from our own gao .  this bill is bad for our national security interests , it is bad for america , and i hope it is defeated .  mr. chairman , i think it is important that when we talk about reforming the united nations that we have to be clear about what the united nations is .  it is not simply the secretariat .  the secretariat is just the staff .  they are the hired help .  they run the day-to-day affairs of the united nations ; but it is the member states that set policy , that make decisions that are responsible for oversight in implementation of the united nations resolutions .  in particular , it is the function of the security council to carry out those responsibilities .  the united states is a permanent member of the security council , with the power to veto any resolution .  when the security council does not want the united nations to work , it will not work .  the gingrich-mitchell report put it this way , and i am quoting , `` too often the phrase `the united nations failed ' should actually read `members of the united nations blocked or undermined action by the united nations. ' `` an excellent example of this concept is the sanctions against iraq in the oil-for-food program .  the united states advocated for the sanctions on iraq in the aftermath of the gulf war and then supported the oil-for-food program , advocated for it , but it was the security council , not some amorphous united nations somewhere up in new york , that had the responsibility to oversee the oil-for-food program and the sanction regime .  but when jordan and turkey notified the security council that they intended to purchase oil from iraq , in direct violation of the sanctions regime , the security council simply took notice , whatever that means .  i still can not figure it out , but they did nothing else .  it did not block jordan and turkey from this trade .  it did not sanction those countries .  it did not instruct the secretariat to take any action .  it did nothing .  as a result , syria and egypt then began to purchase oil from iraq as well , and it is important to understand that this ended up as the largest illicit source of revenue for saddam hussein , and it had nothing to do with the oil-for-food program , nothing to do with it at all .  the moneys derived from these so-called trade protocols far exceeded the money that saddam hussein skimmed from the oil-for-food program .  this chart next to me shows that the so-called trade protocols generated over $ 8 billion in revenue for saddam hussein .  my friend , the chairman of the subcommittee on oversight and investigations talks about $ 10 billion ; 8 billion of that came from the security council 's inaction while looking the other way .  even some of the money that saddam stole from the oil-for-food program could have been saved by aggressive oversight by the security council .  it is important to note it was the security council that approved all prices on oil exports from iraq , and every contract needed their approval for humanitarian goods coming into iraq , and yet when the secretariat brought 71 contracts to the attention of the security council because of concerns of pricing irregularities , the security council did nothing , did nothing , and saddam profited and stayed in power as a result .  why ?  why did the security council not address any of these issues ?  because the security council , including our own government , and there was two administrations involved , both the clinton and the bush administration , reached a political decision that it was not in their interests to fully enforce the sanctions .  that has to be understood .  so when we talk about making the united nations more effective , let us be clear that the changes that are being proposed , and that i embrace , do not fully address the problem .  what is ultimately required is improving the way member states work together , and some level of transparency in the internal workings of the security council , not unilaterally withholding dues .  i am convinced that those eight ambassadors who sent that letter to our congressional leadership are correct when they say withholding dues to the united nations may sound like smart policy , but would be counterproductive .  it would create resentment , build animosity and actually strengthen the opponents of reform .  it would place in jeopardy the reform initiatives that we embrace .  please understand that .  mr. chairman , i thank my friend for yielding me this time .  i also read the same report that the gentleman from new jersey referred to , but i would like to provide him an update at this point because i am sure he received his information from a newspaper report , if i am correct .  mr. chairman , reclaiming my time , again , let me provide this as an update , because this is a report by the associated press from today , titled `` u.n .  oil-for-food author of e-mail memo says he never discussed oil-for-food contract bid with kofi annan .  the executive who wrote an e-mail suggesting that the u.n .  secretary general kofi annan may have known about a u.n .  contract awarded to his son 's company has denied ever discussing the firm 's bid with annan , a law firm said wednesday. '' so , again , i think it is worthy of a review , clearly worthy of an investigation ; but i do find it interesting that when we talk about investigations that we have not taken the opportunity to investigate the report by the special inspector general for iraq reconstruction of the report by an american official indicating that the coalition provisional authority provided less than adequate controls for approximately $ 9 billion of development funds for iraq funds provided to iraq through the national budget process .  we can not find that money .  mr. chairman , the u.n .  soon to celerate its 60th anniversary , is chartered to promote universal human rights , justice and social progress .  these are perfect ideals that the global community must strive to put into action , but that does not mean the u.n .  is a perfect organization .  recent scandals and the lack of transparency within the u.n .  undermine the essential role the u.n .  plays in world affairs .  reform is an urgent priority but the cure for fixing these problems should not be worse than the disease .  h.r. 2745 will hamstring the u.s. 's ability to create positive reform within the u.n. , tarnish the image of the u.s. abroad when public opinion of the u.s. , particularly in the arab countries where is at an all time low , and defeat the administration 's public diplomacy efforts before karen hughes even assumes her new responsibilities in september .  additionally , h.r. 2745 would halt funding for any new or expanded peacekeeping missions .  unilaterally preventing the u.s. from supporting new peacekeeping missions puts an untold number of lives at risk and additionally , could endanger u.s. national security interests .  in fact many of the peacekeeping reforms contained in the hyde bill are endorsed by the u.n .  department of peacekeeping operations , and in most cases are already underway , to address recent concerns raised about sexual exploitation and abuse in peacekeeping missions .  moreover , h.r. 2745 does not enjoy the full support of the administration .  according to r. nicholas bums , under secretary of state for political affairs , `` we have serious concerns with the bill .  we are the founder of the u.n .  we 're the host country of the u.n .  we 're the leading contributor to the u.n .  we do n't want to put ourselves in a position where the united states is withholding 50 percent of the american contributions to the u.n .  system. '' congress must provide the state department with the tools and flexibility to push for positive changes within the u.n .  the lantos/shays substitute would provide the authority , but not mandate , the secretary of state to withhold dues from the u.n .  if reform measures are n't implemented in a timely manner .  the united states , as the world leader , must take an active , positive role in helping reform the u.n .  the lantos/shays substitute is the step in the right direction for u.s. reform efforts and i will vote in favor of this substitute and against the u.n .  reform act .  madam speaker , i yield myself 7 minutes , and i thank the gentleman from utah ( mr. bishop )  for yielding me the time .  let me quote , this would undermine american credibility at the united nations .  it would undermine our effectiveness .  those are the words of the distinguished under secretary of state nicholas burns , who said of the bill that we are considering , it will call into question our reliability as the founder and host nation and leading contributor to the united nations and would also harm our image worldwide .  my colleague from utah pointed to the bipartisanship .  i gather that he would agree that it is bipartisan when nicholas burns and alcee hastings and other democrats and this administration join in opposing this measure .  in my opinion , this bill takes a shortsighted approach to reforming the united nations .  there are decent , necessary and desirable provisions in this legislation , but , madam speaker , this bill takes well-thought-out ideas and pushes them far into the realm of demagoguery , demonstrating a contempt for the united nations that is entirely unfounded .  the united nations reform act is yet another example of the majority 's willingness to bulldoze over dissension and force its will upon those who would otherwise disagree .  the draconian requirements of the underlying legislation will affect everything from the promotion of human rights in the organization to the inclusion of mandatory sunset provisions for all new u.n .  programs .  the most shortsighted of the bill 's provisions would require a mandatory withholding of peacekeeping funds unless the requirements in this legislation are met .  madam speaker , simply put , prohibiting the secretary of state from exercising discretion regarding the withholding of funds to the united nations is counterproductive .  the secretary herself told a group here in the capitol day before yesterday that the bush administration is not supporting the mandatory withholdings contained in this bill .  it seems clear that if even this administration , which has never been reluctant to withhold criticism of the u.n. , is against this provision , then it must be bad .  it has become a cliche when members of the house speak repeatedly about winning the hearts and minds of the world ; yet our constant use of gun-barrel diplomacy continues to fail .  do my colleagues really believe that withholding millions of dollars from the united nations will encourage the member nations to go along with what we are trying to do today ?  adlai stevenson , that great champion of world diplomacy , said , `` the whole basis of the united nations is the right of all nations , great or small , to have weight , to have a vote , to be attended to. '' now , more than 40 years later , the underlying legislation seeks to eliminate the right of any country besides our own to chart the future of the united nations .  the only way for us to reform the u.n .  is to work within it rather than threatening to take our ball and go home .  we will not be successful by withholding the funds that are needed to do the job .  thanks to the bush administration , the united states ' international reputation as a peace-loving nation is in tatters .  now my friends on the other side want to pass a bill which will withhold peacekeeping funds while conflicts rage around this world unchecked ?  this is irresponsible , immoral and a foreign policy disaster .  everyone in this body realizes that the united nations is not a perfect organization , but on balance , the united nations has been and will continue to be good for america on a range of global issues .  let us not forget the thousands of united nations personnel who risked their lives in iraq and afghanistan to bring about successful and free elections in those countries or the role of the u.n .  in effecting the withdrawal of syrian military forces from lebanon .  in march of 2005 , secretary-general annan released a string of initiatives to combat terrorism , proposals that the united states government has openly supported .  and in the sudan , the u.n .  has committed aid workers , troops , police , and money to ensure the success of peace accords .  the u.n .  also continues to provide a global voice and to be a powerful advocate for change around the world .  how many millions of children 's lives have been saved through unicef , madam speaker ?  how many millions of lives have been saved through disease treatment and eradication programs ?  how many have been made better through development assistance , cultural programs , and advances in education ?  can we really justify cutting off our support for all these efforts simply because the u.n .  does not implement every single one of our reform proposals ?  madam speaker , that is the reason i will be supporting the lantos-shays substitute to this bill .  eleanor roosevelt , our country 's first representative to the united nations , remarked , `` do what you feel in your heart to be right , for you will be criticized anyway. '' it may be that the united states will still be criticized even if we adopt the substitute and these reforms are pushed through .  but i would rather do the right thing and be criticized than give up and go home because things did not go 100 percent of the way that we wanted it to .  the lantos-shays substitute takes a realistic approach to reforming the united nations .  it includes virtually all of the reforms in h.r. 2745 , with one crucial difference .  the substitute gives the secretary of state the flexibility to make decisions regarding funds based on the needs of the united states .  the substitute avoids the counterproductive all-or-nothing diplomacy of this measure , while still promoting the reforms everyone agrees are needed .  madam speaker , legislating unrealistic ultimatums will not achieve the goal that we are seeking .  i urge my colleagues to oppose this ill-advised and shortsighted legislation .  madam speaker , i reserve the balance of my time .  i thank the chairman , and i agree with him regarding our rhetoric .  when i made my references i was referring to the bush administration and not to the distinguished chairman and other members in the body .  and i stand by those statements , mr. chairman .  mr. speaker , i reserve the balance of my time .  mr. speaker , i yield myself the balance of my time .  mr. speaker , i want to join in whole-hearted endorsement in echoing of all of the words of praise that have been directed toward the distinguished chairman of the committee on international relations .  i have known the gentleman from illinois ( chairman hyde ) to not only be gentlemanly and eloquent , but fair-minded and bipartisan in a substantial number of efforts , and i , like all of our colleagues here , deeply appreciate the work that he has done on behalf of this nation and indeed this world throughout the course of his career , and i compliment him in that regard .  i also accept the chastisement of the distinguished chair with reference to rhetoric , but i would urge that some of the rhetoric that i may have used is rhetoric that i learned here in the house of representatives that has been used on both sides of the aisle much too often , in my judgment .  that said , i would like not to be an apologist for the united nations .  the united nations needs to be reformed , and i think that it could be put better by the words of under secretary of state nicholas burns , whom i quoted when i began .  i further quote him in saying that it is more important to press for structural reforms .  i think ambassador burns is absolutely mindful of what all of us are .  the gentleman from illinois ( chairman hyde ) ; the gentleman from california ( mr. lantos )  , my good friend , the distinguished ranking member ; the gentleman from connecticut ( mr. shays )  , his colleague in filing this measure ; all of the members of the committee on international relations , indeed all the members of this body recognize that the united nations has problems .  but if we are in the business of using this as precedent , then we would not want to establish a precedent where using the hammer , as the gentleman from indiana referred to the monetary withholding as being the hammer , to cause let me give the members the analogy by way of an exact example .  i happen to be the president of the parliamentary assembly of the organization for security and cooperation in europe .  it is the first time that an american has been the president , and we are holding the assembly 's conference here in washington , d.c. , and i thank the speaker of the house and the majority leader of the senate for the extraordinary effort that they have put in allowing that this assembly be undertaken in appropriate fashion in a bipartisan way .  secretary rice is one of the featured speakers at that assembly .  i raise it only for this reason , and i see the gentleman from new jersey ( mr. smith )  , my good friend , who is the chair of the helsinki house side of the same assembly that i am talking about .  the gentleman from new jersey ( mr. smith )  can relate to what i am about to say , and i ask the gentleman from illinois ( chairman hyde ) to do so as well .  more than a year ago , the governing side of the osce was met with threats from the country russia .  and we agree even today that transparency and accountability in that organization is critical .  they hold most of their undertakings behind closed doors .  they operate on the consensus rule , and it primarily stagnates the mission of the osce .  but russia said that unless the united states paid more dues , interestingly enough in this particular instance , and that they paid less dues , and that reform measures that they were seeking were implemented , that they would withhold their dues from the osce .  it did not stop the organization from running .  it is not going to stop the assembly from taking place here in washington , d.c. , july 1 through july 5. but what it did was that threat caused turmoil inside the organization that is in need of reform , and i think we run into the same kind of measure here in this particular proposal .  listen , madeleine albright and john danforth , richard holbrooke and jeane kirkpatrick are nobody 's rookies , and they are not naive when it comes to what is needed .  thomas pickering and bill richardson and donald mchenry and andrew young , all eight of these individuals were people that served as our ambassadors under republican and democratic administrations to the united nations , and during that entire period of time , each of them in their own way contributed to meaningful reform .  all of them have said , the need for united nations reform is clear , but we urge that you carefully consider this legislation because it will not , it will not , do the necessary reforms at the u.n .  mr. speaker , i take this time for the purpose of inquiring of the majority whip the schedule for the week to come .  i thank the gentleman for that information .  first , if the distinguished whip knows , my presumption is , based upon the schedule that has been submitted , that the probability is we will not have votes on friday next .  is that a reasonable assumption , do you think , for our members to make ?  mr. speaker , can the gentleman tell us , with respect to the appropriations bills , which day of the week , tuesday and thereafter , you might expect each of the individual bills to come up in particular ?  of course , the defense appropriations bill is of great interest to our members .  mr. speaker , i thank the gentleman for that information .  i note , mr. whip , that the intelligence authorization bill , which was schedule to be on the floor today , which had been pulled , is not on the schedule for next week .  that obviously is a very important bill .  and it is , i would say to my friend , as i understand it , a bill which has the agreement between the chairman of the intelligence committee and the ranking democrat on the intelligence committee .  so it would seem to be a bipartisan agreement on the substance of the bill .  can the whip tell us when we might see that bill back ?  i am sure you agree it is a very important bill , providing for the work of the national intelligence director and providing to make sure that we can keep this country safe from terrorists , and i know that both sides are hopeful that it will come forward pretty quickly .  can the gentleman tell us when that might be on the floor ?  mr. speaker , i thank the whip for the information .  it may be helpful to know that i believe on our side of the aisle , we believe that the gentleman from michigan ( mr. hoekstra )  and the gentlewoman from california ( ms. harman 's ) agreement was appropriate in the sense that the flexibility be given to the national intelligence director to provide for the best possible personnel assignment with reference to maintaining our security and intelligence apparatus in the most effective mode would be correct , if that is of any help to the whip as he considers the support that that proposition may have on the floor .  i realize there are those on his side of the aisle who have some concerns about it .  i understand that the secretary of defense may have some concern about it .  but i think , frankly , i would hope that a very substantial majority of the house would agree both with the republican chairman of the intelligence committee and the democratic ranking member of the intelligence committee .  the gentleman does not have to comment on that , but i thought that it might be useful information for him .  mr. speaker , i thank the gentleman for that information .  i will ask one more question on the intelligence issue .  does the gentleman know whether the administration is supportive of the position taken by the chairman of the intelligence committee and the ranking democrat on the intelligence committee or not ?  has the administration taken a position on that ?  reclaiming my time , i thank the gentleman .  lastly , we just had a vote on the privileged resolution that was offered by the democratic leader , the gentlewoman from california ( ms. pelosi )  .  that resolution , as you know , sought to try to move the ethics process forward so the ethics committee could do its work .  hopefully , all of us believe that it is very important that the ethics committee be able to undertake its work .  i would hope that the majority would take steps to perhaps discuss in a bipartisan way the implementation of the existing rules which we believe , as you know , require a majority vote for the hiring of a staff director .  that is the way it has always been .  from our perspective , that is the way it was intended to be .  so it would be a bipartisan or , better yet , nonpartisan handling of the responsibility of the ethics committee .  i would hope that in the near term , next week and the days thereafter , that we would work together to try to get this moving forward .  because i think it is important to both sides of the aisle , it is important to the integrity of the house , and i think it is important to the american people .  reclaiming my time , i thank the gentleman , and i have no doubt about his sincerity in that desire .  i would simply observe that had we had the opportunity to debate the privileged resolution , which really seeks to redress the house 's positions , that perhaps we could have explored more broadly the differences that exist as they relate to the staffing of the committee .  both sides apparently believe that they are correct in their interpretation , but hopefully both sides want a bipartisan and not a partisan staff to proceed with its work .  i think the gentleman is probably correct , and of course the resolution offered did not resolve the question .  we understand that .  but i think the gentleman is correct , it would not resolve it any more than the vote on the rules in january resolved the changing of the rules and the feeling that they were not appropriate to provide the context in which we could proceed .  i know that the gentleman from missouri ( mr. blunt )  very honestly and sincerely , as i do , wants to see this matter resolved and see the committee move forward so it could become a matter of history and not a matter of current debate so we can focus on the important issues confronting this country .  i appreciate the gentleman 's comments .  mr. chairman , i rise to oppose the united nations reform act of 2005 as it is currently constituted .  this legislation sends the signal to the world that our nation has a disdain for the united nations and i for one can not support that idea .  there are many instances in which the u.n .  has been instrumental in furthering u.s. foreign policy objectives .  in the past year alone , the u.n .  helped organize parliamentary elections in iraq , reconstruction efforts following the indian ocean tsunami , and helped mediate the withdrawal of syrian armed forces from lebanon .  a reformed u.n .  could be even more complementary to u.s. interests abroad , but only if the u.s. does not alienate other member states and create animosity in the process .  the inflexibility of the hyde legislation would create resentment among member states , and the automatic withholding of dues would cripple the institution .  hyde 's unilateral approach to u.n .  reform promises to thwart the growing international consensus for reform , which will be addressed by at least 174 nations at the september summit in new york .  we need a more flexible approach which does not dictate unrealistic deadlines for changes or threaten automatic withholding of dues , will achieve u.s. goals without causing widespread resentment among member states whose support we depend on .  the hyde bill on u.n .  reform contains many serious flaws which if implemented would not be welcome by the international community .  peacekeeping is one such area where this bill contains deeply flawed logic .  the hyde bill points to peacekeeping reforms that everyone agrees are needed .  these reforms are in fact endorsed by the u.n .  department of peacekeeping operations and in most cases , these reforms are already underway to address recent concerns raised about sexual exploitation and abuse in peacekeeping missions .  however , the hyde bill says that starting this fall , the u.s. must prevent the expansion of existing missions or the creation of any new u.n .  peacekeeping missions until all specified reforms are completed and certified by the secretary of state .  the truth is that some of these requirements simply can not be met by the fall , true reform takes time .  reforms will require careful implementation at the u.n .  as well as by the 100-plus troop contributing countries , and in some cases will require additional u.n .  staff and funding ourselves to be the ones who cut off assistance to these desperate people .  not only does the hyde bill take a wrong approach to peacekeeping , but it will also create great problems with the budget at the united nations .  the hyde bill claims to `` pursue a streamlined , efficient , and accountable regular assessed budget of the united nations , '' yet in reality the approach taken by the bill will wreak havoc on the u.n .  budget process and will result in the automatic withholding of u.s. financial obligations to the u.n .  regular budget .  this flawed bill attempts to shift funding for 18 specific programs from assessed contributions to voluntary contributions .  to achieve these goals , the bill mandates the withholding of up to $ 100 million in u.s. dues to the u.n .  regular budget .  while this idea may have merit , the u.s. should work with its allies to advance it through the budget committee at the u.n .  instead of starting from the point of withholding dues , which should be our nation 's last resort .  furthermore , the hyde proposal links 50 percent of u.n .  dues to a list of 39 conditions , the hyde bill also calls for certain steps supported by the u.n .  and the u.s. , such as the strengthening of the u.n .  oversight function , the creation of a peacebuilding commission , and reforms in u.n .  peacekeeping .  however , it calls for these reforms to be funded solely within existing resources .  if the u.s. withholds dues as this bill calls for , even less funding will be available to support these reforms .  this bill also calls for the creation of new positions in several departments , including the office of internal oversight services and the department of peacekeeping operations , without allowing resources to fund these positions .  clearly , too many of the provisions of the hyde u.n .  reform bill will only cause resentment against the united states in the international community .  achieving reform by consensus in a body with 191 members is difficult , but this is not in itself a reason to by-pass the consensus building process .  the more member states that are engaged in achieving reform , the more legitimate and effective the changes will be .  the u.s. should lead the way by actively promoting a tough reform agenda and retaining the threat of withholding dues as a last resort .  reform should not , however , be a crusade led by the u.s. against the institution and its member states .  unfortunately , this bill on u.n .  reform will not lead to reform , but only to the weakening of the united nations .  with great respect for chairman hyde and his intent i regretfully will have to oppose h.r. 2745 .  mr. chairman , i yield myself such time as i may consume .  mr. chairman , before yielding , let me commend the gentleman from california ( mr. rohrabacher )  for his powerful statement .  and let me commend the gentleman from illinois ( chairman hyde ) for including in his bill extremely important measures that enhance accountability .  i would like to state that the lantos-shays substitute which we will present later contains the same measures .  we are in full accord on dramatically enhancing accountability at the united nations .  mr. chairman , i thank the gentleman from california ( mr. rohrabacher )  for his comments .  mr. chairman , i have the greatest respect for the gentleman from indiana ( mr. pence )  .  the problem with this provision , as with much of the bill , is the lack of judgment that our secretary of state could bring to bear as a new , tragic darfur-like situation erupts someplace .  we do not question the need for improving the peacekeeping process , we are with you totally on that , but we would like to have our secretary of state have the opportunity of exercising her judgment in a rapidly changing and evolving situation .  mr. chairman , i ask unanimous consent that we be given 5 minutes to explain our position .  mr. chairman , i just heard the gentleman advocating for flexibility for our secretary of state .  does this flexibility extend to the bill as a whole , in the gentleman 's view ?  mr. chairman , i want to commend my good friend from florida for an improved version of the underlying hyde bill .  i refer to the hyde bill as a guillotine on autopilot , and i think it is in the true american spirit that the gentleman now has a more effective , faster-working , more suicidal guillotine which he is offering to this body .  i do not think this proposal deserves really any serious comment .  if , in fact , 38 1/2 of the 39 hyde commandments are fulfilled , we should not automatically chop off 75 percent of our dues to the united nations .  i thank the chairman for yielding to me .  mr. chairman , this is yet another occasion that chairman hyde and i stand shoulder to shoulder on attempting to reform the united nations .  i strongly concur with the chairman , this is overkill .  it is over-overkill .  using the gentleman 's logic , it is difficult to see why he is not proposing a 95 percent automatic dues cut-off .  but maybe upon reflection he might propose that on a future occasion .  mr. chairman , i demand a recorded vote .  madam chairman , i yield myself such time as i may consume .  i briefly would like to respond to both of my good friends .  we are not offering a resolution .  our legislation is identical to the republican legislation .  the only difference is that your punitive provision is automatic ; our punitive provision provides discretion to the secretary of state to implement it or not .  so please do not talk about resolutions .  we are not talking about toothless resolutions .  our legislation is as binding as the republican legislation is .  we just do not put it on autopilot .  the guillotine does not fall automatically ; it is put in the hands of a singularly intelligent secretary of state .  with respect to the long list of items that my good friend , the gentleman from new jersey , outlined , every single one of them is part of our legislation .  every single one of them is part of our legislation .  the only difference is that the republican proposal , looking years ahead into the future , automatically mandates a 50 percent cut in funding if only one of 46 goals is not achieved .  our legislation allows the secretary of state to implement that provision as she sees fit .  madam chairman , i reserve the balance of my time .  madam chairman , i demand a recorded vote .  mr. chairman , i thank the ranking member for yielding the time , and i want to express my enormous respect for the gentleman from illinois ( mr. hyde )  , my dear friend , with whom i agree on some things but not on this issue , although the majority of the bill i know is consistent with the gentleman from california 's ( mr. lantos )  and my view , although i do rise in strong support of the lantos substitute and in opposition to the underlying bill , but it is with great respect ; and i appreciate the opportunity to work with my colleague on this and many other issues .  it is no secret that the united nations is going through a period of intense soul-searching , precipitated by increasing evidence that it has become an ineffective and unwieldy institution that long ago lost sight of its reason for being .  when the world changes , its institutions must change with it or become irrelevant , and so the u.n .  has embarked on a mission to adapt to the changing times .  as the nation most involved in the founding of the u.n. , the united states has an obligation to play a key role in this reform process .  reform can not , frankly , come quickly enough .  the u.n .  suffers today from a credibility gap around the world and for good reason .  the volcker commission has exposed some uncomfortable truths about the oil-for-food program .  the u.n .  has dragged its feet in addressing some of our world 's worst crises , such as the darfur genocide , and has been impotent on human rights issues ; and the record of the u.n .  and many of its member states with respect to israel has , frankly , been abominable .  in many ways , the u.n .  is broken ; but we must remember that it remains and must remain a central actor in global affairs .  the organization has provided critical resources to nations coping with great poverty and social dislocation .  the u.n .  population fund has reduced the number of unintended pregnancies around the world through basic family planning services .  unicef is the premier organization combating childhood disease in poor countries .  agencies like the united nations development program have raised living standards by improving governance , health , and education .  for millions around the world , the u.n .  is not some distance bureaucracy .  it is a hot meal for a hungry family .  it is a doctor for a pregnant mother .  it is protection for a first-time voter , and it is peace for a war-ravaged village .  indeed , even when the u.n .  efforts fall short , and they often do , progress toward international cooperation is made , and recognition of common interests and values is encouraged .  as many have said , the u.n .  is the kind of organization we would have to invent if it did not already exist .  a strong u.n .  is good for the united states and good for the world .  so enacting the hyde bill , which is more about punishment than reform , simply does not serve , in my judgment , the best interests of this country .  in requiring a mandatory 50 percent cut in the united states dues to the u.n. , unless 32 of 39 specific reforms are achieved , the hyde bill provides no flexibility whatever to the state department to negotiate with other u.n .  member states .  rather than providing secretary rice a tool to encourage ongoing u.n .  reform negotiations , it ties her hands .  the lantos substitute would call for most of the same reforms as the hyde bill , while providing the secretary of state with room to maneuver to get real reforms passed .  it is a common-sense way to achieve the changes we all agree are needed with the right balance of diplomacy and muscle .  and while i support the goals of the chairman , i can not endorse his means , and i urge my colleagues to support the lantos substitute and defeat the underlying bill .  mr. chairman , how much time do i have remaining ?  mr. chairman , how much time is remaining ?  mr. chairman , it is time that we make real reforms at the united nations that address the real problems , but i believe that the hyde bill simply sets the united nations up to fail by creating a series of requirements that will be almost impossible to meet .  one might even argue that this is the actual goal of some u.n .  critics .  the united nations is governed by 191 countries , including syria , iran , and north korea , who would have to approve the majority of these changes .  this seems highly unlikely as structured by the bill .  right now this bill is medicine which may kill the patient rather than cure a specific disease .  the hyde bill ties the hands of the secretary of state with a mandatory 50 percent withholding , even if the u.n .  improves significantly .  that is like kicking a child out of school who has moved from an f to a b because they did not get an a. the bill also keeps the u.s. from supporting any new peacekeeping missions until far-reaching reforms have been implemented , even in cases like a sudan and when innocent civilians are at risk .  we do not know when and where u.n .  peacekeepers will be needed next , but we do know that we can not risk the lives of innocent people or risk american interests around the world .  we simply can not create legislation which hurts our own security interests and our national interest while we are at war .  this is a time , when our own human and financial resources are stretched thin , for the united states to get the world to act with us rather than destroy the institution which unites the world .  i am concerned that the bill condemns us to lose only american lives , shed only american blood and spend only american capital instead of having the world share this responsibility with us .  that is why i urge my colleagues to vote against the hyde bill and to vote for the lantos-shays substitute that does the reforms we want , but gives the secretary of state the flexibility to do the peacekeeping and to achieve the reforms we all want to see .  mr. chairman , although i believe in the values and principles expressed in the united nations charter , the organization has been hijacked by some member states who have betrayed those values .  the use of blood libels by representatives of member states in official u.n .  reports and by ngos is unacceptable .  it is time to do more to press the u.n .  to reform .  it is not enough to criticize the u.n .  and to denounce its institutional anti-semitism .  slandering the jewish people , their aspirations for self-determination , and their homeland is unacceptable .  excluding israel , a member state , from the community of nations because of ancient hatreds and slanders is unworthy of an organization founded to promote world peace and end human suffering .  no other nation would be denounced for taking steps to protect its citizens from acts of terror aimed intentionally at civilians .  no nation has exercised as much restraint as israel , yet no nation has been subjected to so much condemnation , indeed vilification and demonization , including those countries that practice slavery , torture , and genocide , some of whom have been privileged to sit on the united nations commission on human rights , a right denied to israel in the more than half a century it has been a member .  the u.n .  is capable of good and important work in the eradication of disease , in alleviating poverty , in averting genocide , in peacekeeping .  it can and should do more , but it can never live up to its potential and its mission unless it sheds the stain of anti-semitism .  for these reasons , the united nations critically needs to be reformed .  yet , some commands for change , including several provisions in the hyde bill , are counterproductive and unwise .  specifically i can not support the hyde bill provision that mandates cutting in half u.s. payments to the u.n .  unless the u.n .  adopts 39 specific reforms , many of which can not conceivably be adopted because they require unanimous consent from all 191 member states , including syria , iran , and north korea .  the hyde bill would halt funding for peacekeeping missions , endangering vital new or expanded u.n .  operations in darfur and haiti , and ignoring the possibility of future crises that may demand international intervention is such places as iran or syria .  the lantos substitute recommends reforms that will make the u.n .  more fair and effective , but it avoids the rigid and draconian approach that makes the hyde bill both unreasonable and potentially dangerous , so i urge adoption of the lantos substitute .  mr. chairman , although i believe in the values and principles expressed in the united nations charter , the organization has been hijacked by some member states who have betrayed these values .  the use of blood libels by representatives of member states , in official u.n .  reports , and by ngos , is unacceptable and clearly evidence that the united nations needs to be reformed .  i believe it is time for the united states to do more to press the u.n .  to reform .  it is not enough to criticize the u.n .  it is not enough to denounce the u.n. 's institutional anti-semitism .  slandering the jewish people , their aspirations for self-determination , and their homeland , is unacceptable .  excluding israel , a member state , from the community of nations because of ancient hatreds and slanders is unworthy of an organization founded to promote world peace and end human suffering .  no other nation would be denounced for taking steps to protect its citizens from acts of terror aimed intentionally at civilians .  no nation has exercised as much restraint as israel , yet no nation has been subjected to so much condemnation , indeed vilification and demonization , including those countries that practice slavery , torture , and genocide , some of whom have been privileged to sit on the united nations commission on human rights -- a right denied to israel in the more than half-century it has been a member .  the u.n .  is capable of good and important work , in the eradication of disease , in alleviating poverty , in averting genocide , in peacekeeping .  it can and should do more , but it can never live up to its potential and its mission unless it sheds the stain of anti-semitism .  for these reasons , the united nations critically needs to be reformed .  yet , some demands for change -- including several provisions in the hyde bill -- are counterproductive and unwise .  specifically , i can not support the hyde bill provision that mandates cutting in half united states payments to the u.n .  unless the u.n .  adopts 38 specific reforms -- many of which can not conceivably be adopted because they require unanimous consent from all 191 memberstates , including syria , iran , and north korea .  the hyde bill would also halt funding for peacekeeping missions , endangering vital new or expanded u.n .  operations in darfur and haiti , and ignoring the possibility of future crises that may demand international intervention in such places as iran or syria .  the democratic substitute , offered by my colleague and good friend from california mr. lantos , which authorizes the secretary of state to use her discretion in withholding funds to promote adoption of the reforms we seek , is far preferable .  the lantos substitute recommend reforms that will make the u.n .  more fair and effective , but it avoids the rigid , draconian , automatic approach that makes the hyde bill both unreasonable and dangerous .  mr. chairman , i regret that i can not vote for this bill .  i am not opposed to the ostensible purpose of the bill -- in fact , i share the view that the united nations needs to be improved so it can better carry out its indispensable role .  the u.n .  is a critically important body that has taken on many of the world 's problems and solved them -- problems such as poverty , disease , and international disputes .  and the u.s. has benefited from u.n .  actions .  just recently , the u.n .  helped with elections in afghanistan and iraq and helped negotiate the withdrawal of syrian forces from lebanon .  but it has serious problems , as exemplified by the oil-for-food scandal and offenses committed by u.n .  peacekeeping forces .  so , i support u.n .  reform -- but i can not support the approach the bill takes toward achieving that objective .  the bill would require the secretary of state to push for reforms at the u.n .  in the areas of budgeting , oversight and accountability , peacekeeping , and human rights .  that is something that needs to be done .  but if the secretary of state can not certify that the reforms have been achieved , starting in 2007 , the secretary would be required to withhold 50 percent of the u.s. assessed contributions to the u.n. 's regular budget .  the assessed u.s. contributions are estimated at $ 362 million for 2005 , and $ 439 million for 2006 .  i think such a punitive and unilateral approach to reform will not work .  i think its primary result would be to further isolate the united states while at the same time actually undermining ongoing efforts at reform and potentially jeopardizing the u.n. 's ability to focus on global threats and work toward greater global stability .  the substitute proposed by representatives lantos and shays would have been a better approach , and i regret that it was not adopted .  as it stands , the bill is problematic on a number of fronts .  first , it would mandate withholding of dues from programs that do not get moved from the u.n. 's assessed budget to a system of voluntary contribution , a goal unlikely to be achieved .  also , it would require the united states to veto security council resolutions establishing any new u.n .  peacekeeping missions -- including involvement in a crisis like the one taking place in darfur -- until the peacekeeping reforms called for by the bill have been completed .  this is like forbidding firemen to respond to a blaze because we are unhappy about the way the department is organized and financed .  i can not support that .  the bill would cut u.s. contributions to u.n .  conferences and public information programs by 20 percent unless the overall budgets for these programs are cut by 20 percent , and if the 20 percent target is not met by 2008 , the bill would mandate the withholding of 50 percent of u.s. contributions .  it also would require that 50 percent of annual dues be withheld even if just one of 14 mandatory benchmarks were not met .  these go beyond stern -- they are petulant .  their predictable result is not reform , but failure .  in short , the bill as it stands would simultaneously demand reform and make it impossible to achieve .  the substitute offered by representatives lantos and shays would have used carrots as well as sticks and would have given much greater flexibility to the secretary of state .  the substitute included benchmarks very much like those in the base bill , but it gave flexibility to the secretary of state to mandate the 50 percent cuts to our u.n .  dues .  similarly , the substitute did not link the change from `` assessed '' to `` voluntary '' contributions to withholding a portion of our dues , and it would have allowed the secretary of state to waive the peacekeeping reform requirements if it is determined that a new mission is in the u.s. national interest .  the substitute also included incentives by supporting an effort to pay our dues on time , an increased u.n .  budget for the large number of new offices that will be needed to implement the reforms , a well structured buyout of unneeded u.n .  personnel , and a contribution to the u.n .  democracy fund .  the difference between the bill now before us and the lantos-shays substitute is that while the substitute was realistic in the way it set out a path toward reform , the majority 's bill if fully implemented would effectively destroy the chances of achieving an effective and improved u.n .  instead of adopting such an approach , the united states should engage the u.n .  member countries in the process of reform and provide the u.n .  with the resources necessary to accomplish reforms , rather than alienate the global community by threatening to withhold dues .  the bush administration itself is opposed to this legislation as it stands .  i do not often agree with them , but i do in this instance and i therefore must vote against the bill .  mr. chairman , i rise in support of the lantos substitute .  mr. chairman , i rise to speak in support of the substitute legislation offered by the ranking member of the house international relations committee , mr. tom lantos .  as a former u.s. ambassador , i know and appreciate that the united nations serves a most useful purpose .  it is the only international body that allows those countries that support the united states and those that do not to sit down in peaceful dialogue to address issues of concern and to work together .  to maintain the opportunity to resolve our differences , we must not cut the funds we provide to the united nations .  mr. lantos ' bill supports the necessary reforms we all recognize are needed for the united nations but does so without malice .  like h.r. 2745 , the substitute supports the goal of reforming budgeting procedures , but it eliminates the devastating automatic withholding of 50 percent of the dues we owe to the united nations .  we should not tie the hands of our secretary of state nor should we give those who do not support the united states , an issue in which to embarrass us .  the substitute gives the secretary of state the authority to make the cut but does not mandate such cuts .  a more preferable position .  the substitute also keeps the peacekeeping reforms of h.r. 2745 but does not mandate the vetoing of any new or expanded u.n .  peacekeeping operation that does not serve our national interest .  again , the flexibility contained in the substitute is preferable to h.r. 2745 .  mr. chairman , the united states is the world leader and we should be a leader in all areas including serving as a model country in its relationships to the world community .  this means pushing for reforms in the united nations when such reforms are necessary but it also means being a good citizen and doing our part to fulfill our responsibilities and to be a good world citizen .  mr. chairman , i urge support for the lantos substitute .  madam speaker , i thank the gentleman from florida for yielding me this time .  madam speaker , the second secretary-general of the united nations , dag hammarskjold , commented during his tenure that `` the united nations was not created to take humanity to heaven but save it from hell. '' a keen observation on the fundamental tensions present in such a massive and massively important institution .  the u.n .  was built upon the very highest of ideals : support for human rights , peaceful resolution of conflict , and respect for international law and conventions .  however , the reality of the u.n. 's composition of 191 member states , often with 191 different national interests , has challenged these high ideals .  we all know that .  many are examining how to meet these challenges and improve the weaknesses of the organization : the secretary-general 's report , the u.n .  high level advisory panel , the volcker commission investigation , the mitchell-gingrich report .  and each of them , in addition to the bill we are debating today , is circling around the same group of reforms .  but the central debate here on the house floor is not about what the reforms should be .  madam speaker , the debate here is how you sell them .  there are 191 individual members of the organization that must agree on the reforms , sometimes unanimously , if we are to make the u.n .  an even better organization than it already is .  and this is where i diverge from some of my colleagues .  i share the views of the eight former u.s. ambassadors to the united nations .  i do not believe harsh , automatic penalties hold any chance of garnering support among the many nations needed to enact these reforms .  i must note that their experience spans each of the five presidencies , from jimmy carter to george w. bush .  we should be heeding their sage advice .  for this reason , i support the lantos-shays substitute , which authorizes the secretary of state to withhold a portion of our u.n .  dues at his or her discretion instead of the severe automatic penalties .  we should not advocate a policy of withdrawal from the world community on the one hand and ask for it to engage on the other .  but h.r. 2745 would stir up exactly that resentment in its current form , resentment that will kill any hope for change .  in closing , madam speaker , the united nations has a genuine opportunity to reform and , with our leadership , the potential for great success .  we must add to this momentum by supporting the lantos-shays substitute .  mr. chairman -- -- mr. chairman , i object .  mr. chairman , today i rise to express my deep concerns about how this bill falls $ 1.6 billion short in funding our nation 's most critically important domestic priorities -- particularly education .  this bill is a stunning example of the impact that this congress 's misplaced priorities can have on what most consider to be a basic human right -- access to a quality education .  we have made a conscious choice : while we give away tax cuts worth $ 140 , 000 to millionaires , families earning $ 25 , 000 to $ 30 , 000 a year wo n't be able to afford sending their children to college this year .  it 's an unconscionable choice that defies our priorities and our values of standing up for middle class americans .  before i was elected to congress , i spent 30 years as a college administrator .  in that time , i came to fully understand how difficult it is for students and their families to afford college .  every day , i worked with parents and their children -- scraping up money , grants , scholarships , whatever we could find -- to help them realize part of the american dream -- the opportunity to earn a college education .  but for the fourth straight year , congress has short-changed students by cutting billions of dollars from the authorized level under law -- $ 13.2 billion short of what is authorized for fy 06 and over $ 40 billion short since its enactment in 2001 .  another public law we have abandoned is the idea improvement act , which has been underfunded by nearly $ 4 billion since its enactment .  for our nation 's 7 million disabled children , idea part b grants alone fall short of the president 's budget request by over $ 500 million .  at a time when some of the nation 's poorest school districts are fighting to stay open , this bill cuts title i funding for the neediest of our elementary and secondary schools by $ 500 million below the president 's request .  while in the past year alone , tuition has increased an average of 10.5 percent at 4-year public universities , this bill provides only a modest $ 50 increase in the maximum pell grant -- a full $ 1 , 000 short of what the president promised in 2001 .  and , ironically , at a time when this administration and republican congress talk about morality and family values in public affairs , this bill cuts local public tv and radio funds for childrens ' shows like sesame street and reading rainbow .  my specific concerns about the higher education shortfalls stem from my belief that a quality education is integral to the success of americans and the nation as a whole .  as an increasing number of students graduate from high school and pursue postsecondary education and training , we must make the necessary investment to deliver accessible , affordable and excellent education to all americans .  each year , millions of hardworking american students and their families struggle to cover the cost of attending college , even after exhausting all of the options available to them such as scholarships , student loans , pell grants , and college work-study .  the typical low-income student falls $ 3 , 800 short of college costs even after their family contribution , student loans , grants , and work have been accounted for .  today , an affluent student in the bottom percentile of their class is more likely to go to college than an economically disadvantaged student at the top of their class .  with college enrollment expected to expand by 14 percent , to more than 15 million students over the next decade , now is the time that congress must invest its resources towards helping students gain access to college .  but under this bill , the percentage of college costs covered by the pell grant would drop to a new low of 32 percent .  this is compared to thirty years ago when the pell grants paid for 72 percent of the cost for a 4-year public college .  the lack of a significant increase in the pell grant comes at a time when changes to the tax allowance formula used to calculate the department of education 's `` expected family contribution '' eliminated pell grant awards for over 90 , 000 students , and reduced scholarships for an additional 1.3 million students .  for the second year in a row , this bill also freezes funding for supplemental education opportunity grants ( seog ) and college work study .  this is the second year in a row that seog and work-study have received flat funding .  with this bill , we have made a conscious choice -- to provide more comfort for the comfortable at the expense of those who are trying to make a better life for themselves .  mr. chairman , many americans seeking disability benefits under the social security disability insurance program , more commonly know as ssdi , face intolerable delays in the processing of their claims .  ssdi is a true insurance program .  all american workers pay into the program , and any working american who becomes disabled is eligible for assistance .  the social security disability system has a backlog of more than a half-million cases on appeal .  social security commissioner jo anne barnhart testified last year that , on average , it took more than 3 years to complete processing of a disability claim on appeal , from the day it 's filed to the day it 's finally adjudicated .  these delays come with a high cost for the men and women forced to wait .  for some , it means exhausting their life savings .  others lose their health insurance coverage , the family car , and even their homes .  and as once-proud workers unable to pay their bills are reduced to borrowing from friends and family , some americans lose even their dignity .  these delays have hit home in my ohio district .  one constituent , bobbi from sheffield , ohio -- a single mom injured in an auto accident in 2001 -- exhausted her life savings and was forced onto welfare while she waited .  she finally received the support she had earned just last month , after waiting 4 years .  another constituent , ronald from elyria , ohio has a heart condition that left him disabled in 2001 , but he had to wait 3 years for benefits .  the appropriations bill before us today offers a chance to improve the system , for these ohioans and every american .  this bill provides a badly-needed increase in administrative funding for the social security administration .  a lot of these resources will go to funding administration of the new medicare prescription drug benefit .  but significant funding will be used to help ssa improve disability processing and reduce the claims backlog -- with new technology and staffing .  i support the ssa administrative funding provision in this bill .  but we can do better .  the bill falls more than $ 100 million short of president bush 's request for social security administrative funding .  advocates for disabled americans agree with the president that ssa needs every dollar of the president 's request to attack the disability backlog .  i urge my colleagues to join me in supporting the ssa administrative funding level in this bill .  but i urge you then to work with me as this bill advances , to seek full funding of president bush 's ssa administrative budget request .  there has been a lot of talk lately about the future of social security .  but our first obligation should be to make social security work as well as it can right now .  mr. chairman , i rise today in opposition to the proposed cuts of more than $ 100 million to the corporation for public broadcasting .  this organization funds over 1 , 000 public television and radio stations nationwide , and the funding from congress is essential to its functioning .  cpb also funds producers , educators and technology specialists for the development of new public television and radio programming and new media .  the cpb supports educational programs , as well as , provides education resources for parents and teachers .  i support the mission of the corporation for public broadcasting in its goal of providing the public with education and informative media sources .  in a time when much furor exists over the decency of much of what is broadcast on our televisions and radios , it is only logical that congress support an organization that has held traditional values to a high standard which is reflected in its programming .  children 's programs such as sesame street and arthur , programs which undoubtedly educate our children and instill them with positive values , will lose the necessary funding that keeps them on television .  this is simply unacceptable .  when cpb comes to the hill , it is clear that children of lawmakers from both sides of the aisle watch public television .  children from both parties laugh at elmo and get their picture taken with cookie monster .  like my colleagues , my office has also received hundreds of phone calls urging congress to restore funds for public broadcasting .  our constituents do not support these cuts which represent 25 percent of cpb 's overall funding .  i urge my fellow members to oppose the proposed cuts to the corporation for public broadcasting .  mr. chairman , i rise to express my concern that funding for title vii programs have been cut in this bill .  vii programs provide direct financial support for healthcare workforce development and education .  it is imperative to provide adequate funding so that well-trained health care providers can continue to meet the needs of the american people .  the house showed great leadership last year by providing $ 300 million in funding , and i believe that any decrease could hamper the programs ' ability to train health professionals to care for the neediest populations .  the president 's budget proposes , for the fifth year in a row , to eliminate many of the programs that educate and train a variety of health care providers , such as pharmacists , dentists and pediatricians .  for a number of years now , i have organized members to express support for this important program , and urged the appropriators to fully fund it in the labor-health and human services-education bill .  for the first time this year , the house has failed to restore this funding .  these massive cuts will eliminate key programs that make it possible for our health professions schools to develop training infrastructures and high quality education .  the title vii health professions programs are also the only federal programs designed to train providers in interdisciplinary settings to respond to the needs of special and underserved populations .  the programs have shown to increase minority representation in the health care workforce , which i believe is absolutely essential for our health system .  at a time when the american people have come to rely on their health care providers more than ever , eliminating this resource would be devastating to the country 's neediest communities .  mr. chairman , i demand a recorded vote .  mr. chairman , the fact that there is a funding crisis in va hospitals this year to the tune of $ 1 billion should be a surprise to no one .  on march 23 , 2004 , the legislative directors of the disabled american veterans , the paralyzed veterans of america , and the veterans of foreign wars said that passage of the budget resolution as presented would be a disservice to those men and women who serve this country and who are currently serving in iraq , afghanistan , and around the world in the fight against terrorism .  the bottom line is , this house on a partisan basis , through the budget resolution , has underfunded va medical care .  veterans groups knew it , democrats in this body knew it , democrats in the other body knew it .  in fact , i made a specific effort in the emergency appropriation bill for iraq to get additional funding for va hospitals this year , but was rebuffed by the house leadership that said that money was not necessary .  as the gentleman from wisconsin has pointed out , that money is necessary .  we have a crisis .  it is inexcusable for the leadership of the veterans administration to testify just a few months ago , 2 months ago , that they did not need any extra money to provide adequate health care for veterans .  now , just 60 days later , they admit there is a $ 1 billion crisis in funding .  we need to find out why the va misled the congress ; and , most importantly , we need to address this problem .  i would welcome a bipartisan effort in trying to address the funding needs for veterans .  yes .  mr. chairman , i thank the chairman for his attention .  mr. chairman , i rise today to urge that full funding for title vii health professions programs be restored in the fy 2006 labor-hhs bill .  the elimination of funding for valuable programs such as the area health education center ( ahec ) and the health education and training center ( hetc ) would have an immediate , damaging impact on medical education , care , and research , especially in the state of new york .  title vii authorizes grants for important programs designed to address problems such as recruitment and retention of providers for health centers , shortages in nursing and allied health , and the under-representation of minorities in the health care professions .  these healthcare training programs are the only federal programs designed to increase the supply of primary medical care providers and public health professionals in underserved areas , such as inner cities and rural regions throughout the country .  in addition , these programs seek to train more health professionals in fields experiencing shortages , improve the geographic distribution of health care personnel , and enhance minority representation in the pool of practicing health professionals .  new york has benefited greatly from title vii health professions programs .  in fy 2005 , new york institutions received over $ 20 million in title vii programs .  however , continual annual budget cuts pose a great risk to health care in the state of new york .  without federal funding , the ahec system will be greatly hindered in its ability to address the problems of access to health care , diversity of the health care workforce , and recruitment and retention of health care professionals in medically underserved areas .  for these reasons i support the restoration of funding for title vii health professions programs through the fy 2006 labor-hhs appropriations bill .  mr. chairman , i rise in opposition to h.r. 3010 , the departments of labor , health and human services and education fiscal year 2006 appropriations act .  h.r. 3010 severely under funds education , health care , and job training efforts that are crucial to north carolina and to the country .  as the only former state schools chief serving in congress , i know firsthand the devastating effects that these education cuts will have .  at a time when we are asking our schools to do more than ever , these education cuts will destroy the morale of our teachers , parents and students .  not only does this appropriations bill continue to under fund no child left behind , but it also shortchanges special education for 6.9 million children , fails to raise the maximum pell grant and eliminates successful education initiatives like drop out prevention .  these education cuts will make it impossible for our schools to meet high standards of accountability .  unfortunately , h.r. 3010 also fails to provide adequate funds for key health care programs .  in rural communities it is often hard to find a doctor , and emergency rooms can be dangerously far away .  this appropriations bill slashes funding for rural and preventative health .  activities that would be terminated include initiatives designed to encourage new medical and dental school graduates to choose primary care specialties and to practice in rural and urban under-served areas .  i am also concerned about the inadequate funding for preventative health block grants and community health centers , both of which provide much needed services to the people of north carolina 's 2nd district .  mr. chairman , i urge my colleagues to vote against this bad bill .  mr. chairman , i yield myself the balance of my time .  i find it strange that the distinguished chairman and the distinguished chairwoman , both of whom are well known for their support of medicare , social security , and seniors in this nation would object to what is really just a bureaucratic change , a change that can be done through computers in a very quick fashion .  the department of health and human services has said that the health insurance claim number that they use is merely a variation of the recipient 's social security number , not the actual number , and has noted that the number may be based on the social security number of a spouse or parent .  however , more often than not , the number the agency uses is the person 's social security , preceded or followed by a single letter of the alphabet .  the agency has said it has no immediate plans to stop this practice .  what more can the department of health and human services do to the theft of our identity ?  give thieves and unscrupulous people mothers ' maiden names ?  not so long ago , i would tell the chairman , we experienced the same problem with the mailing labels sent to us from the irs .  i was told there was no way the irs would change its practice and any disruption would disrupt the whole tax collection system of the nation .  i found that incomprehensible , simply a defense of bureaucratic inertia , and said that they can change a computer system very quickly so booklets that would be mailed out to millions of americans would not have the social security number .  i introduced a similar bill to stop the irs from putting social security numbers on its mailings , and the irs found a way in short time to stop the practice that could lead to identity theft .  there is simply no excuse , mr. chairman , for leaving medicare beneficiaries vulnerable to identity theft with a thinly disguised social security number on medicare-related mailings .  this is merely bureaucratic inertia .  it only requires a computer software change .  no benefits to medicare or social security will be held up .  it is about time this congress said to a bureaucracy , cut the fooling around , break through the red tape , and protect our seniors and all our families in america from identity theft .  mr. chairman , i demand a recorded vote .  mr. chairman , i thank the gentleman from wisconsin .  i wonder if the gentleman from ohio could give us some guidance on what the chances are for the ultimate survival of this very important program which the president supports , and i believe is supported on the merits .  could we get it in the bill next week ?  or what is the prospects of this youth build program not dying because of kind of a shuffle here .  i thank the gentleman .  mr. chairman , how much time do i have remaining ?  mr. chairman , i yield myself such time as i may consume .  i appreciate the sentiments expressed by the gentleman from ohio , my good friend , and i understand that he is interested in the best interests of the people in this country , particularly the medicare and medicaid beneficiaries .  but the fact of the matter is we have experience in this regard .  we have the federal employees health benefits plan .  none of the information about who they are , where they are located , what their telephone numbers may be , is distributed to anyone so that they may be contacted under the provisions of the federal employees health benefits plan .  so why , under this new so-called medicare modernization act , are we communicating that kind of information indiscriminately to a whole host of companies that are now going to besiege senior citizens with phone calls that they are not going to welcome ?  we have ways to communicate whatever information we want to to the people who may be the beneficiaries under this program , and they can do that through the existing medicare and medicaid programs very simply .  there is no reason whatsoever to give this information out indiscriminately so that these people can be harassed .  mr. chairman , i reserve the balance of my time .  mr. chairman , i ask to reclaim the balance of my time .  may i reserve the remainder ?  all of it ?  all 5 minutes have expired ?  mr. chairman , i thank the distinguished gentleman for yielding .  i hope we can find an opportunity to find common agreement .  let me just say that my colleagues need to understand that the administration believes in this structured agreement , a totalization agreement , because they understand that when americans are overseas working and getting benefits , that they would like those americans to ensure that their benefits go with them .  that is the same relationship we should have with mexico , that when workers are here , their benefits gained here should follow them to mexico .  i would oppose any language that would deny that right .  i think the question of whether or not they are documented or undocumented , the administration needs to make that determination .  i do not know if my colleagues are going to thwart the administration 's desire to find some common ground on immigration .  if this language says that it is consistent with federal law , then i hope that this congress will work with the administration so that we will not be embarrassed internationally by denying nationals of another country their well-gained rights or benefits that they have gained working .  we would not want that to happen to us .  i will listen further to the debate .  i raise a concern that they are denying those who are working their well-earned benefits .  one thing we can stand for is you deserve your pension rights , you deserve your social security rights , you deserve your uninsurance rights , your health care rights , and it should not be taken away from you .  nevertheless , i hope my friends on the other side do not do that .  if the language does not do that , i would say to my colleagues that if this is a good resolution , we certainly will join in with it .  mr. chairman , today we will vote on h.r. 3010 , the labor , health and human services , and education bill for fiscal year 2006 .  on behalf of the educators , administrators and students in dallas , texas , i would like to express my strong opposition to the education appropriations outlined in this measure .  the inadequate overall funding in h.r. 3010 completely undermines the public prioritization of education as a paramount concern .  make no mistake -- these education cuts come as no surprise .  beginning with the passage of the house budget resolution for fy 2006 , my republican colleagues have shown their true intentions with regard to education funding .  as passed , the budget resolution provides $ 56 billion in discretionary funding for the department of education .  this is a $ 530 million , or 0.9 percent decrease over the current fiscal year ( fy 2005 ) .  this is the first time in over a decade that total education funding has been cut .  although our children have no legislative voice , they represent our nation 's future and deserve our investment in their education today .  as it stands , h.r. 3010 would cut funding for reading tours , teacher quality initiatives , bilingual instruction , class size reduction , school modernization , violence prevention initiatives , afterschool services and many other vital programs .  specifically , the house labor-hhs-education appropriations bill would cut .  no child left behind by $ 806 million ( 3.3 percent ) below the current level .  under this bill , the nclb funding shortfall will be $ 13.2 billion next year and over $ 40 billion since enactment .  the bill also cuts the $ 603 million increase the administration proposed for title i to help low-income children improve their reading and math skills to only $ 100 million .  the administration 's request was already inadequate .  however , under this bill , title i funding will be $ 9.9 billion below nclb 's funding promise for fy 2006 .  the bill freezes after school centers , virtually for the fourth year in a row at $ 991 million even though only 38 percent of all after school applications nationwide could be funded last year .  we are turning away children even though more than 14 million kids are unsupervised after school each day .  it slashes education technology by $ 196 million ( 39.5 percent ) on top of a $ 196 million cut last year .  one in four states have no other dedicated technology funds to track nclb student achievement data , improve teachers ' use of technology , and close the achievement gap through online learning .  it eliminates comprehensive school reform grants to 1 , 000 high-poverty schools by eliminating the program .  rigorous independent evaluations have shown that comprehensive school reform models such as success for all , america 's choice , high schools that work , first things first , and talent development are making a significant difference in helping schools implement integrated , schoolwide reform strategies .  this bill turns its back on these schools .  the bill cuts investments in teachers .  it freezes the main nclb program to put a qualified teacher in every classroom -- teacher quality state grants -- at $ 2.9 billion for the 3rd consecutive year of a freeze or cut .  the bill denies 80 percent of the administration 's $ 500 million request to provide an incentive for the best teachers to teach in the most challenging high-poverty schools .  it cuts funds requested for math and science teachers by $ 79 million ( 29 percent ) .  it even cuts teacher training in american history by $ 69 million ( 58 percent ) .  it freezes impact aid payments to 1 , 300 school districts for over 1 million military and other federally-connected children , funding impact aid at approximately 35 percent below the maximum payments authorized for fy 2006 .  the bill also freezes flexible innovative education grants , english language training , civic education , state assessments , and rural education .  some of these programs have been frozen for four years in a row .  although the republican majority promised low-income students a $ 100 increase in the maximum pell grant in the 2006 budget resolution , this bill provides only half that .  the $ 50 increase would offset only 2 percent of the additional $ 2 , 300 in four-year public college costs since 2001 .  if enacted , h.r. 3010 would be a grave disservice to our children and the future of our nation .  for these reasons and more , i oppose the unsatisfactory education funding levels in this appropriations bill .  unfortunately , underfunded education initiatives is not the only problem with this bill .  the bill disinvests in job training and help for the unemployed -- cutting these programs by $ 346 million below the current level while 7.6 million americans remain out of work .  finally , this legislation lacks appropriate funding levels for in the human services area , the committee cuts in half the community services block grant , a program aimed at helping the poorest people in our communities who often have no other place to turn .  this is an improvement over the president 's plan to abolish the program entirely , but it still leaves more than 1 , 000 local community services agencies seriously short of resources to assist low-income people .  the purpose of this block grant is to provide flexible funds to meet whatever a local community considers their most important needs , whether it be for job training , emergency food aid , programs for low-income seniors , or home weatherization .  the bill also cuts the low-income home energy assistance program ( liheap ) by almost $ 200 million -- even though there 's no reason to expect that we wo n't have another winter of sky-high heating oil and natural gas prices .  over the past four years , the average cost of heating a home with oil has almost doubled , and the share of that cost covered by the average liheap grant has fallen by half , from 49 percent to 25 percent .  clearly , i can not support this bill as written .  in its current form , this legislation is nothing less than an insult to the american people .  it inadequately and irresponsibly allocates money to labor , health and human services , and education .  however , should this bill return from the senate with the appropriate funding levels , i will gladly support it .  i sincerely hope we can work out the problems and pass a responsible bill that responds to the needs of our children , workers , and elderly citizens .  mr. chairman , in politics there are show horses and there are work horses .  this process , instead of seeking a solution , only sought headlines .  we had an opportunity to make real progress and address the concerns of these tribes .  instead of addressing this issue in a substantive manner in committee , we are once again addressing it in a political way on the floor of the house simply for political gain .  mr. chairman , i yield myself the balance of my time .  mr. chairman , i have been involved in defending indian sovereignty for 40 years when i began my tenure in the michigan legislature .  and i will never abdicate my responsibility on that .  i think it is extremely important that this congress on an issue so delicate and so important to two groups for whom we have great affection , be done in the appropriate committee , the committee of jurisdiction .  the gentleman from ohio ( mr. boehner )  and i have discussed having hearings in that committee .  mr. chairman , i rise in opposition to this bill .  let me begin by thanking chairman regula , ranking member obey and their staff for their hard work in bringing this bill to the house floor .  although the committee has done its best , it is shameful the committee had a limited amount of money to fund america 's highest domestic priorities .  this republican led congress and the administration has put the $ 140 , 000 tax cuts for people who make $ 1 million or more a year ; and spending $ 250 billion fighting the war in iraq and afghanistan ahead of the need to invest in our children , our education system , our health care system , and job training programs that will help american families .  this bill does fund many of the programs that the administration wanted to cut or eliminate programs such as trio , gear up , vocational education state grants and adult education programs .  however , the bill before us today sorely underfunds or eliminates too many programs .  the bill zeroes out 48 programs .  the list is enclosed .  also , the bill provides the smallest increase for the national institutes of health in 36 years .  this bill cuts $ 806 million from no child left behind .  this bill provides only a $ 50 increase in pell grants , despite hundreds of dollars of increases in college tuitions and costs .  this bill cuts the employment service program by $ 116 million .  the employment service program helps the unemployed with finding jobs and with 7.6 million americans out of work this program is critical .  quality pre-natal care and health services for low-income mothers and infants should be a priority but this bill cuts the maternal and child health block grant program by $ 24 million and the healthy start program targeted to communities with high infant mortality by $ 5 million .  the low-income energy assistance program that helps families pay heating bills is cut by $ 198 million at a time when gas prices are at their highest .  the safe and drug free schools program to keep school aged children off drugs and alcohol is cut by $ 37 million , which will devastate many families and communities .  preventative health block grants to state health departments are cut by $ 31 million .  the bill slashes the education technology program by $ 196 million .  the community college initiative is cut in half by $ 125 million .  it freezes after-school centers for the fourth year in a row .  mr. chairman , this bill eliminates 48 programs , including the elimination of $ 100 million department of health and human services ' contribution to the global fund to fight hiv/aids , malaria and tuberculosis .  it eliminates comprehensive school grants for 1 , 000 high-poverty school districts by eliminating the program .  this bill eliminates 10 out of the 12 title vii health profession training programs .  these programs help ease the shortage of doctors , dentists , and other health professionals in underserved areas .  this bill eliminates the health communities access program that helps health centers and public hospitals better serve the uninsured .  mr. chairman , h.r. 3010 does not invest in our future , our families , or our country .  the needs and values of americans are not addressed .  this bill shortchanges the american people .  the appropriations committee had to make tough choices because of the strict budget allocations brought on by the misguided and irresponsible tax cuts for the richest of americans and the cost of the war , but programs that help millions of americans should not be on the chopping block .  congress is walking away from our commitment to equal opportunity and a better quality of life for all americans .  greater access to job training , better jobs , affordable healthcare , quality education , and closing the disparity gap should be our goal .  the labor , health & amp ; human services , and education bill falls far short of achieving these goals and strengthening american families .  mr. chairman , i ask unanimous consent that the balance of the gentleman 's time be reserved .  mr. chairman , i would ask unanimous consent for 2 additional minutes on each side .  mr. chairman , that is correct .  mr. chairman , i wish to enter into a colloquy with the gentleman from ohio ( mr. regula )  .  as the gentleman knows , hhs at one time conducted a program on gulf war illnesses research .  and the gentleman also knows that , according to the congressionally chartered research advisory committee on gulf war veterans ' illnesses , there has never been a better time to invest in this research .  the potential causes have been narrowed , more diseases are being discovered , parallel benefits to national security are more urgently needed , and there is still no treatment for our ill veterans .  would the gentleman agree to work with the agency and me to encourage nih to establish its research portfolio in this area ?  mr.chairman , i rise today to join my colleagues in urging full funding of the national children 's study .  two of the most important health studies ever conducted were large , ambitious epidemiological studies .  the framingham study followed the health and risk factors of thousands of men and women for fifty years .  the result has been a major change in the way we view , treat and prevent heart diseases .  the nurse 's study has monitored the health of over one hundred thousand women for decades .  it , too , has resulted in unprecedented leaps forward in public health .  now , we must turn our attention to one of the biggest sources of public health threats of our time : our own environment .  the national children 's study will follow 100 , 000 children from before birth until age 21 .  similar to the framingham study and the nurse 's study , it could yield giant steps forward in our efforts to solve some of the most complex and pervasive health problems of our time : obesity , asthma , and autism are just a few .  and we could start to see results within a few years of data collection .  yet the study has been left in a holding pattern .  in order to begin recruiting participants in the study , 69 million dollars is required for this year .  only 12 million dollars is provided in the fy 06 labor hhs bill .  i hope that the conference committee allocates 69 million dollars in the conference report for the fy 06 labor hhs appropriations bill to the national children 's study .  we are not doing our future children any favors by postponing this study until it is financially convenient .  the need is here .  the possibilities are here .  mr. speaker , i thank the gentlewoman for yielding me this time .  i rise in opposition to this bill and to the rule .  let it be known that november 17 , 2005 , is the day this congress officially forgot the heroes of 9/11 .  when we vote on this conference report , we will be taking away $ 125 million promised to sick 9/11 workers .  this is money these men and women were promised by this congress and by the president in 2001 .  but now , in an era of misdirected priorities , the president and this congress are snatching the money back .  in fact , this bill is full of misdirected priorities when we consider that the republican leadership will spend more on tax cuts this week , $ 70 billion , than they will on education and labor programs for the entire coming year , $ 68 billion .  you only start to realize how out of touch this congress is with the priorities of the average american people .  i hear daily from members of congress that we will never forget 9/11 ; but when we turn a cold shoulder to the men and women who were there for us in our greatest hour of need , i can not in good conscience vote for this bill .  the 9/11 responders are not asking for much .  all they are asking for is to be treated with respect and dignity .  they rushed to ground zero with no concern for their own safety .  we were under attack , and america needed help .  they responded ; and as a result , many of them are very sick now .  the government 's response has been to fight these heroes every step of the way .  many have had their claims denied or wrapped up in red tape for months or years .  then when not all of the money was spent in new york state , we are told this is justification for taking it back , even though the need is still great .  this shell game would be comical if it were not so sad and so hard on the lives of these people .  i know this decision today is not the fault of the gentleman from ohio ( chairman regula ) .  i understand that his hands are tied on this issue .  i would also like to thank a fellow new yorker , mr. walsh .  he has been an absolute champion for this issue in the committee .  despite their hard work and the work of a united new york delegation , united democrats and republicans , the outcome today is not what it should be .  the one thing i know and i can promise is that this fight is not over .  i speak for all of my colleagues on both sides of the aisle , certainly in the new york delegation , that we are not going to stop until we meet the needs of the heroes of 9/11 and this promised money of $ 125 million is restored to the budget .  anything short is just plain wrong , and it hurts the health care of our heroes .  mr. chairman , i rise today to oppose the massive cuts to the title vii health professions training programs which play a critical role in addressing the shortage of doctors , nurses , dentists and other health professionals in underserved areas and have proven to increase the diversity of the health care workforce .  the republicans ' fiscal year 2006 budget gives away $ 106 billion in tax cuts to the wealthiest in our society .  now , in order to pay for those cuts , they are making huge cuts to critical programs for the poor and the most vulnerable in our country .  the title vii health professions training programs are some of the many casualties of these tax giveaways .  in order to pay for tax cuts to the wealthy , this bill slashes funding for the title vii programs by 84 percent , cutting the programs from $ 300 million to $ 47 million .  these title vii programs promote access to quality health care to for our nation 's neediest citizens and they are only federal programs designed help prepare health professionals to respond to the needs of these special and underserved populations .  these programs are a vital component of the health education system in our country and are necessary to maintain the high quality health care that we expect .  these cuts will have a dramatic impact on the system at a time when essential health care services are already facing funding cuts and program eliminations .  i urge you to oppose these cuts and i am hopeful that the committee will work to increase funding for these programs in conference .  mr. chairman , i thank the gentleman for yielding to me .  i would just like to make the point this does not turn over any court decisions .  united has yet to file a business plan with the creditors committee .  the fact of the matter is this is the only opportunity we are going to have to have them go back and negotiate and try to use private systems to solve this problem before they come to the taxpayers .  so this does not tamper with any court decisions or with the ability of united to go forward .  mr. chairman , i have a parliamentary inquiry .  mr. chairman , i believe , under the traditions of the house , the chair is the speaker of the whole house , and the chair has an obligation to call the vote in the manner in which the vote was arrived at under the voice vote .  it is not a question of whether the ayes or the noes will prevail on a recorded vote .  the question is what happened on the floor at that particular time .  in this instance , the yeas prevailed , and the chair said the noes prevailed .  a number of years ago , we had very heated debates on this floor from the republican side , from mr. walker , because they felt that they were insulted , especially when cameras came into this chamber , that the chair would call votes against their interests when they clearly prevailed on the voice .  the chair was admonished by the speaker of the house , and we went back to what was the traditionally fair point of view .  so i would ask the chair in the future , and future chairs , to recognize that the chair is calling the event that takes place in front of the chair on the floor , not what the chair perceives to be , and may be correctly so , the outcome of the vote later on in the day when the recorded vote is taken .  mr. chairman , i demand a recorded vote on the chair 's ruling .  mr. chairman , i rise today in opposition to the funding levels in h.r. 3010 , the fy 2006 labor-hhs-education appropriations act , for the no child left behind ( nclb ) act , the individuals with disabilities education act ( idea ) , and title vii health professionals programs .  i voted for nclb because i believe in increased accountability for our nation 's public schools to ensure that the promise of a high-quality public education can be realized for each student in our nation .  before the vote on nclb , i heard reservations from local educators and my constituents that nclb not become another unfunded mandate like idea for special education .  when congress approved and the president signed nclb , however , i believed that the federal government would provide the promised funding to enact these reforms .  since 2002 , congress and the administration have not fully funded nclb .  in h.r. 3010 , congress and the administration cut nclb overall funding by $ 806 million ( 3.3 percent ) below the current level .  under this bill , the nclb funding shortfall will be $ 13.2 billion for fy 2006 and over $ 40 billion since the law 's enactment .  in addition , h.r. 3010 cuts the $ 603 million increase the administration proposed for title i to help low-income children improve their reading and math skills to only an $ 100 million increase .  the administration 's request was already inadequate , but these additional cuts put title i funding $ 9.9 billion under what is promised under nclb for fy 2006 .  congress and the administration have not fully funded idea , a program that helps local schools and school districts pay for the costs of providing educational services to special needs children that are mandated by federal law .  the federal government has never provided 40 percent of the costs it initially promised when it enacted this important law .  h.r. 3010 provides $ 3.9 billion less than congress promised in the idea improvement act of 2004 .  in addition , this bill even cuts the $ 508 million increase proposed by the administration to only $ 150 million .  under this bill , the federal share of special education costs will actually drop from 18.6 percent to 18.1 percent next year .  in the 2004-2005 school year , 10 states and 7 , 194 school districts saw cuts in title i funding , including my state of kansas .  for the 2005-2006 school year , kansas along with nine other states will again receive less title i funding .  for my home state of kansas , the combined funding shortfall for nclb and idea for fy 2006 is $ 240 million , which is shifting the burden of meeting these new requirements back to kansas taxpayers .  with the deadline of expanding assessment to grades 3 through 8 scheduled for the 2005-2006 school year and more districts being identified under adequate yearly progress ( ayp ) , congress and the administration are not keeping pace with increasing demands at the local level .  the federal government must provide our school with the resources and tools necessary to help them meet the new standards imposed by nclb .  it is simply a matter of fairness and common sense .  this is why i have introduced h.r. 2694 , the keeping our promises to america 's children ( kpac ) act of 2005 .  this legislation would suspend implementation of nclb until the law is fully funded .  i would also like to express my concerns about the cuts to title vii health professions programs included in h.r. 3010 .  the elimination of the programs will have an immediate impact on the training and recruitment of health professions students and the educational opportunities developed and supported by title vii .  title vii programs are unique in that they are the only federal investment in interdisciplinary training , which is vitally important , as care is often provided in several different settings .  the programs are also designed to enhance minority representation in the health care workforce and reduce shortages of health professionals in underserved areas , such as inner cities and the many rural regions throughout the country .  community health centers and the national health service corps , for example , rely on graduates of title vii programs to fill their ranks .  congress talks a lot about values .  i think a true measure of values is not what people say , but where congress decides to spend our money or make budget cuts .  funding for these important programs must be restored in the final fy 2006 labor-hhs bill .  these cuts account for almost $ 6 million in kansas and $ 5 million for the k.u .  medical center .  mr. speaker , on rollcall no .  573 , i was caught in traffic , returning from the virginia polls .  had i been present , i would have voted `` no . '' mr. speaker , on rollcall no .  615 , had i been present , i would have voted `` nay . '' mr. chairman , let me thank the gentleman from ohio for striking the last word so you could raise this .  let me simply say to the gentleman from massachusetts ( mr. frank )  , i fully agree with him about the value of the program .  the president 's budget wanted to transfer it to this bill .  the subcommittee did not pick up the money in this bill .  in my view , it should have .  but i would say that because it has not , there will be another opportunity next week to try to deal with this when the teasury-transportation bill comes to the floor .  it would be disgraceful if the congress allowed this program to fall through the cracks because neither committee included the funding for it and if congress simply played alfonse and gaston on us between the two subcommittees .  mr. chairman , how much time do i have remaining ?  mr. chairman , i move to strike the last word .  mr. chairman , i thank the gentleman for raising this issue .  but the contractors are bums .  mr. chairman , i move to strike the last word .  mr. chairman , as the gentleman from ohio ( mr. regula )  said , there are no plans for anyone in the federal government to conduct universal screening , and there are no funds in this bill for any such purpose .  having said that , let me simply say i do not think our problem in this country is that we do too much screening for mental health problems with young people .  we are all familiar with the problem of youth depression .  there are a very significant number of teenagers who are afflicted with that problem .  we are , i think , all familiar with the sad situation with regard to teenage suicide .  two friends of each of my sons committed suicide .  so i do not think the problem in this country is that we know too much about mental health problems for young people .  the problem is just the opposite ; we know too little .  so i agree with the concerns expressed by the gentleman from ohio ( mr. regula )  .  mr. chairman , i move to strike the last word .  mr. chairman , i take this time at the end of the bill to explain why i am going to vote against the bill .  i am speaking as one member of the house ; i am not speaking as ranking democrat on the subcommittee or committee .  i simply wanted people to know why i am going to oppose this bill ; and i want to , at the same time , explain my motion to recommit .  the good thing about this bill is that we repaired most of the damage to the corporation for public broadcasting .  most , but not all .  but let us understand , this bill , in my view , is still an assault on the country 's future .  this bill is just the start of cuts planned over a 5-year period to implement the republican budget resolution that is placing the importance of $ 140 , 000 tax cuts for those making $ 1 million a year ahead of our long-term investments in education of our children , the health care of our people , and the security of american workers .  this is the most important bill that we will consider this year in terms of meeting the needs of the average american family and in building the long-term strength of our society .  more than any other , it is the bill where we care for our neighbors .  it is the bill that determines how well we meet our obligations to those in society who have not been among the most fortunate .  this bill fails to meet those tests in some dramatic ways , and i would like to point out just a few of them .  because of the fact that this house is deciding that large tax cuts for very well-off people are more important than anything else , this bill , on the worker protection front , guts the program that we rely on to try to protect our workers from having to compete against child and slave labor .  it cuts that program by 87 percent , this at a time when the administration is asking that we pass new trade legislation with cafta .  seven and a half million americans are out of work , but this bill cuts the employment service by $ 116 million .  forty-five million americans are without health insurance , but this eliminates community access programs that help people get that health care .  this bill cuts by 84 percent the funding for training grants for health care professionals .  it cuts rural health programs by 41 percent .  the number of grants at nih for research in all kinds of diseases will be cut by 500 from just 2 years ago .  the community services block grant , the program where the poorest people in this country turn when they have nowhere else to go , is cut by half in this bill , and the no child left behind bill is cut by some $ 800 million below last year .  mr. chairman , 1.7 million fewer disadvantaged children will receive care under after-school programs , and 56 , 000 fewer teachers will get high-quality training .  this bill provides only half of the increase promised by the republican majority for the maximum pell grant .  so for all of those reasons , i am going to offer a straight motion to recommit so that this bill can go back to committee , so that these items can be corrected , with one addition .  as we said earlier , we found out today that our efforts to try to increase funding for veterans health care for the last 6 months were absolutely necessary , even though we had been told by the va that they had more than enough money for veterans health care .  we want this bill to go back to the committee so that the committee can also do what it should have done in the first place , which is to add $ 1 billion on an emergency basis to take care of the shortfall in va health care that the white house and omb have been hiding from the american people and hiding from veterans for months .  so i will personally urge a vote for my motion to recommit ; and when the vote on final passage comes , i will vote against it , because this bill just does not measure up to our national obligations .  mr. speaker , reserving the right to object , we can not hear .  mr. speaker , i withdraw my objection , and i support the gentleman 's motion .  i most certainly am .  mr. speaker , i ask unanimous consent that the motion be debatable and that debate be limited to 2 minutes , equally divided between the proponent and an opponent .  mr. speaker , this is a simple , straight motion to recommit so that the committee can repair the shortcomings in the education , health care and worker protection programs in the bill , and so that the committee can respond to the announcement of the veterans administration yesterday by adding a billion dollars to veterans health care programs .  i urge an `` aye '' vote on the motion to recommit .  i will be voting against final passage , and i would hope a good many others will , too .  mr. speaker , i demand a recorded vote .  mr. speaker , most reluctantly , i do appeal the ruling of the chair , not because i have any fault with the chair , but because this is the only opportunity this institution will have to make a different set of priority choices .  mr. speaker , on that i demand the yeas and nays .  yes , i do , mr. speaker .  mr. speaker , 2 weeks ago the labor , health appropriation bill was defeated on this floor largely because it contained inadequate investments in education and health .  today , the bill is back , and what this motion would do is to say to the majority that if they do not want to recognize the need for additional education and health funding , that they at least recognize that an emergency situation exists with respect to the rapidly rising home heating costs with natural gas , for instance , expected to be 50 percent higher than it was last year and with only 15 percent of persons in the country who are eligible getting help from liheap as it is .  i would simply ask the majority to withdraw the point of order in order to allow us to simply proceed to at least debate and vote on the question of rearranging priorities so that we can add $ 2 billion to the low income heating assistance program and fully pay for that by cutting back the scheduled tax cut for persons who make over $ 1 million to $ 131 , 000 .  i think that is quite ample for them .  i would urge the gentleman from ohio to withdraw his point of order .  mr. speaker , because we have no other way to bring this to the house , i most reluctantly appeal the ruling of the chair .  mr. speaker , on that i demand the yeas and nays .  mr. chairman , i was unavoidable detained on official business this morning .  i was in west virginia with chairman anthony princippi , and over west virginia delegation to discuss brac recommendations .  i missed rollcall vote 308 through 314 .  had i been present , i would have voted in the following manner : rollcall vote 308 : `` nay '' ; rollcall vote 309 : `` yea '' ; rollcall vote 310 : `` yea '' ; rollcall vote 311 : `` yea '' ; rollcall vote 312 : `` yea '' ; rollcall vote 313 : `` nay '' ; and rollcall vote 314 : `` yea '' .  personal explanation & lt ; ul & gt ; mr. chairman , i rise in reluctant opposition to the labor-hhs-education appropriations bill .  i say reluctant because as a member of the labor-hhs-education appropriations subcommittee i have worked closely with the other members of the subcommittee during our budget oversight hearings and especially with our chairman , ralph regula , to highlight programs of importance to my constituents .  chairman regula and the staff of the subcommittee have been extremely patient with my many requests , and chairman regula has been extremely generous , within his tight budget allocation , in trying to make progress on several important priorities of mine .  the first of those priorities is the national media campaign to fight underage drinking , which is currently underway by the ad council .  although the subcommittee has provided project funds for this important effort in the past , for the first time , the chairman has included this funding as a programmatic priority in the office of the secretary of health and human services .  representative frank wolf and i were joined by 44 of our colleagues in requesting the funds to carry out a multimedia campaign directed at parents , and i am grateful to chairman regula , who understands the terrible impact of underage drinking on our youth and the importance of an effective national media campaign to address it .  in addition , chairman regula has provided increases in two areas to help infants and their families .  first , cdc -- the centers for disease control and prevention -- conducts a national program for education and prevention of birth defects by encouraging women of child-bearing age to take the recommended amount of folic acid daily .  based on this effort , as well as the fortification of u.s. grain products with folic acid , the rate of neural tube defects has decreased by 26 percent over 7 years , and the committee has continued to provide incremental increases to this important cdc program .  second , the committee has increased funds for the health resources and services administration 's newborn screening program for early identification of infants affected by certain genetic , metabolic , i appreciate chairman regula 's generosity in providing funds for these priorities .  he truly understands that the labor-hhs-education appropriations bill is the people 's bill .  it makes it doubly difficult for me to cast a vote in opposition to the bill because i know he has worked hard to distribute the limited resources he has been given in a fair and conscientious way .  my `` no '' vote on this bill should therefore in no way be seen as a lack of respect or lack of appreciation for ralph regula and his efforts on behalf of those who depend on the resources provided in this bill .  however , this bill , more than any other appropriations bill we act on , by providing the funds for health and education programs of importance to our constituents , i goes to the heart of what we democrats in the house stand for and for what i stand for as a member of congress representing the people and communities of the 34th district of california .  these programs are just too important , and the cuts and terminations in this bill are just too severe , for me to vote for this bill at this time .  i will continue to work with chairman regula , ranking member david obey , and the other members of our subcommittee as we conference the bill with the senate , with the hope that we can identify additional funds and make the improvements to this bill that will make it one of which we can all be proud and which we can all support .  mr. chairman , i have a parliamentary inquiry .  mr. speaker , on rollcall no .  573 on h.r. 3010 , i was unavoidably detained .  had i been present , i would have voted `` no . '' mr. chairman , how much time do i have remaining ?  does the chairman of the committee have the right to close ?  mr. chairman , i demand a recorded vote .  mr. speaker , today we consider house resolution 559 , the rule allowing consideration of the conference report accompanying the fiscal year 2006 labor hhs education appropriations bill .  this legislation is the clearest demonstration of the contempt for the proper functioning of this body and ultimately disrespect for democracy .  the labor hhs education appropriations bill is an incredibly important piece of legislation .  it determines funding levels for job training programs , community college programs , child labor protections , and community health centers .  this legislation is the primary funding vehicle for the national institutes of health .  it determines how our government approaches timely and important issues like stem cell research , global aids research , pediatric medicine , cancer research , and so many other critical issues .  it is also the principal funder of some of the most innovative and practical research going on today at the universities and colleges across the nation .  in my home state of california , two thirds of all basic research at the university of california system is from federal dollars .  as examples using these dollars , the university researchers found a way to differentiate alzheimer 's from other dementia .  they are making strides on identifying genes that cause specific cancers .  they are looking into factors that influence brain development .  the reason i am pointing to all of this is to underscore just how important this legislation is to the daily lives of our fellow americans .  and having established that this bill is a crucial bill for the health , welfare , education , and prosperity of the american people , i would ask my counterparts on the republican side of the aisle why on earth is it that no one has seen this conference report ?  why is it that as of this morning , this very morning , we are scheduled to consider and vote upon this legislation that no one in the house of representatives , with exception of a very few in the republican leadership , has even laid eyes on , much less read or analyzed ?  we did not even go into the rules committee to consider this legislation until 7 o'clock this morning under emergency rules .  the original version of this bill passed the house months ago , and i might remind my fellow americans that it was in this bill that the republican leadership of this body tried to quietly eliminate funding for the public broadcasting system and sesame street .  thankfully , under incredible pressure they were forced to reverse themselves .  and since then , this bill and its senate companion have been locked away in conference .  a handful of appointees of this republican leadership have had months to meet in smokey back rooms .  this select group decided for all of us here today and for every american family what should and should not be in the final version of the bill .  so with that understanding , let me say that this is , at best , a short-sided piece of legislation .  no child left behind funding is cut by $ 784 million .  the maximum pell grant award is frozen for the 4th straight year , and no new funding for all other student financial aid and support programs is provided .  the bill provides $ 4 billion less than republicans promised for special education through idea .  training grants for health care professionals are cut $ 206 million .  i want everyone in america to understand exactly why these programs are being cut .  because in the face of gross fiscal mismanagement on the part of this majority , they want to pass a $ 56 billion tax cut for wealthy americans this coming week .  over half of that money , $ 23 billion , will go to the very wealthiest of americans , those earning over $ 1 million per year .  now , i am certainly not suggesting that there are not government programs that can not be cut .  but what we are talking about are educational programs , health and safety programs , and treatment programs that not only work , but they work well for middle class american families , and they are being sacrificed for tax cuts for the most wealthy and the super rich .  the rest of america is being left behind .  mr. speaker , in closing , we are facing an increasingly costly war in iraq , significant and necessary hurricane relief needs , and a looming crisis over avian flu .  the debate i urge my colleagues to have , a debate not yet addressed by my friends on the other side of the aisle , is really about shared sacrifice and about what the true priorities of the american people are .  mr. speaker , i reserve the balance of my time .  mr. speaker , i yield myself the balance of my time .  mr. speaker , this country is at a critical crossroads in terms of deciding what it stands for , what its priorities are .  our priorities should be to make decisions based on shared sacrifice and a long-term view that seeks to fight for the least powerful among us .  unfortunately , this rule would allow legislation with a shortsighted approach to come to the floor .  all of us , democrats and republicans , hope that medical science will provide the breakthrough to provide relief from a disease which will ease a family member 's suffering .  we all worry about whether rising energy costs will force seniors to make life-and-death decisions about where to spend their limited resources .  and yet this conference report ignores those very needs .  it narrowly restricts the future of all americans so that a very few might have a bit more of a tax break .  that is an approach that i hope all members will reject .  mr. speaker , i appreciate the gentlewoman 's courtesy in permitting me to speak on this bill .  there are a number of things in here that i have no objection to , that i think we should do in terms of preserving our national security .  but what is striking about h. res. 344 is that it basically misses the point .  it is inadequate .  it talks about only a little bit of the equation .  the problem that we have now is first , we have a reckless fiscal policy in this country aided and abetted by this congress .  we are as addicted to the chinese loans , to their credit to us , as we are to saudi oil .  nothing in this resolution talks about getting our fiscal house in order .  what would happen if instead of using their money that we have given them to purchase this oil company , what if they purchased something in another area or if they start dumping our bonds .  what would happen to interest rates and the problems in this country ?  it is also interesting that the resolution talks about the chinese oil supply being stagnant in terms of their domestic production .  our supply in the u.s. is not just stagnant ; it is going down .  even if you suck the entire oil supply out of the arctic wildlife refuge and threaten our offshore areas with drilling , we are still in decline .  this resolution does not talk about energy independence for the united states .  in fact , the republican majority 's energy bill , according to the department of energy , is going to increase our dependence on foreign imported oil by 75 percent .  interesting .  we have gone from a one-third in the 70s , 56 percent imported today , it will be 68 percent in 2025 ; yet the best that my friends in the majority can do is bash china a little bit and not do anything about our oil addiction , not do anything about diversifying our sources of energy , not do anything about the reckless fiscal policy that puts us at their mercy .  as my colleague from virginia pointed out , 44 percent of our debt is foreign owned , an increasing percentage from china .  our addiction to things from wal-mart means that it is going to be more the case in the future .  what are the chinese doing ?  they are diversifying their supply .  they are taking some of the money we have given them to invest .  they are increasing the energy efficiency of their cars , something that , sadly , the republican energy bill does not allow in any meaningful way .  i would suggest , ladies and gentlemen , that you can examine the national security implications of dual-use technology .  that is fine .  but what really has us at risk is that we are addicted to imported oil , wasting energy and a reckless fiscal policy .  this resolution is completely beside the point on these critcial factors .  mr. speaker , this is a good resolution , and i support it , and the issue is important .  however , i just wanted to stand tonight to point out the fact that we are really just talking about the tail .  this is not the dog ; it is simply the tail .  it is important .  i do not want to minimize it .  but the truth is we are talking a $ 16 billion sale most of which will go to american shareholders .  however , what we are not talking about is the elephant in the room where right now as of today , after 4 1/2 years of this administration , we currently owe china $ 277 billion .  that is what we owe them right now .  that is a 257 percent increase over 4 1/2 years ago .  we are going to have a 40-minute debate tonight on this particular issue .  in that 40 minutes , on average , over the last 4 1/2 years , america will have borrowed $ 3 million from china .  by the time we are finished talking , we will owe them another $ 3 million .  i do not want to pick on china .  china is only one of the issues .  it is not the only country .  in the last 4 1/2 years , 84 percent of all debt sold , all private debt sold by the united states government has been sold to foreign governments and foreign corporations of which china is only the second largest .  to me this is an important issue .  i support it .  i am glad we are taking action .  but more importantly , we had better wake up .  we are sending too many jobs , too much money , too much economic power overseas .  china is only one of them .  but they are a large one .  i just wanted to use this opportunity to make sure that we know this is only the beginning .  it is not the end .  mr. speaker , i yield myself such time as i may consume .  i rise in support of the resolution .  the house went on record earlier today in a strong , bipartisan way , to support that we would , first of all , make sure that cfius , which is the committee on investments in the united states chaired by the secretary of the treasury snow , that we go on record making sure that we not spend money at this time for a chinese company that is communist-owned by the communist government to take over our ninth largest oil company .  the congress has spoken , and we are happy that we did so in a loud , strong voice .  the sense of the congress resolution before us is one that we also support .  general motors is losing technology to china , and it is costing the company $ 12 billion a year .  intellectual property rights are not being protected , and china has been abusing those rights .  we must protect american business , and we must do what is necessary .  so , i am proud of the congress and the gentleman from california ( mr. pombo )  for introducing this resolution that we also further state our strong support for not allowing the sale to go through .  mr. speaker , i reserve the balance of my time .  mr. speaker , how much time remains on each side ?  mr. speaker , i thank the gentlewoman for yielding me this time .  i do not have any objection to a review of this contract , and i certainly understand the domestic politics , but i think we need to be fully aware of two things about this : how china is able to purchase unocal , and why they need to .  the how is all about what we have done to ourselves .  with $ 9 trillion of public debt outstanding , somebody has to buy it , and 44 percent of our treasury debt , i say to my colleagues , is foreign-owned .  the fastest-growing component of that foreign ownership is in china , and it is a darn good thing for us that they are buying it , because if they were not , our interest rates would be much higher than they are today .  they are keeping our interest rates low , but it does not come for free .  the fact is , if we say that they can not use that money legally to purchase assets , to give 16+ billion to american shareholders in return for a corporate asset , what are they likely to do ?  they are going to say this currency is not as valuable to us as it is to other people in other countries , so we are going to have to dump this , and imagine what that would mean .  they are holding a financial guillotine over the neck of our economy , and they will let it drop if we do things like this that are not well-considered .  now , the why .  they desperately need energy to keep their economy sustained , but if we do not let them invest in western firms , what are they going to do ?  they are going to invest more capital in iran , in sudan ; they are going to make those governments even stronger than they are today and a much greater threat to us .  so think seriously about this .  now , the reality is that unocal only produces about 1 percent of our oil and gas production , and they intend to market that and continue providing that to the united states .  also bear in mind , though , that american oil companies have a whole lot of drilling rights and oil reserves off the coast of china .  we have an investment all over the world , and when we start with these kinds of resolutions , start deciding , well , we are not going to let the market work , we are not going to let free enterprise control this , this is not truly a globally free economy if it is not completely to out liking .  we are going to treat china differently .  i can not stand state-controlled economies .  but when we start doing things like this , there are ramifications that we have not thoroughly thought out , and i think we need to be very careful about passing resolutions like this .  again , i understand the domestic politics , i understand why we do not want state-owned companies controlling american oil companies , but i also understand why china is doing this .  their ceo was educated in the united states .  they will keep all of unocal 's employees .  chevron plans to save millions by firing most of them .  this is one of the better-run chinese companies .  ultimately what they are proposing is much more in our interests than the alternatives also available to them .  so let us fully consider this before we pass this resolution .  i 'm voting no .  mr. speaker , i rise in opposition to h. res. 344 , which blames china for our dependence on foreign oil .  the republican majority has already sold the entire farm to foreign central banks and multinational corporations , and now they 're trying to tell the american people that they 're standing up for them by stopping china from buying a leftover chicken .  mr. speaker , where were these patriotic republicans when the house passed an energy bill and could n't even muster the votes to raise fuel economy standards on automobiles ?  where were they when we passed trade deals and tax laws to make it easier for their corporate friends to ship jobs to china ?  why has president bush refused to stand up for american workers who wither against illegal dumping practices and an undervalued chinese currency ?  the american people need to know : as long as the republican majority and their corporate friends get their tax breaks and boondoggle defense contracts , they do n't care who pays the bill .  china , in turn , is happy to prop up the dollar and finance the debt because it gives them great leverage over the u.s. for years to come .  no empty resolution like this or indignant politician can change that .  so why are we talking about china now when they have been stocking oil supplies and u.s. currency for years with no change in course from this administration ?  it 's very simple : cheap chinese imports and labor enrich the pockets of the people who really matter in the republican party , but a chinese company owning unocal does nothing for the base .  this non-binding resolution is a talking point for july 4th barbecues , just the way the republicans will tell their constituents that they 're making them safer by throwing billions more into the quagmire in iraq .  mr. speaker , i have proudly voted for renewable energy , against trade deals that sell out american workers , and against tax breaks for millionaires financed by foreign governments .  i support real economic security , and i will not support this sham resolution to give cover to my greedy colleagues and their corporate contributors .  mr. speaker , i rise today speak in opposition to h.r. 741 , a bill to amend the occupational safety and health act of 1970 by requiring judges in osha appeals cases to give more weight to the commission 's decisions than to labor department regulators .  supporters argue the legislation would codify the intent of the 1970 occupational safety and health act ( pl 91-596 ) .  however , i would argue that the measure would violate a 1991 supreme court ruling that gave the labor department priority in interpreting osha regulations .  nearly every working man and woman in the nation comes under osha 's jurisdiction ( with some exceptions such as miners , transportation workers , many public employees , and the self-employed ) .  users and recipients of osha services include : occupational safety and health professionals , the academic community , lawyers , journalists , and personnel of other government entities .  to ensure that these individuals are safe and protected on the job , osha and its state partners have approximately 2 , 100 inspectors , including complaint discrimination investigators , engineers , physicians , educators , standards writers , and other technical and support personnel spread over more than 200 offices throughout the country .  this staff establishes protective standards , enforces those i urge my colleagues to oppose h.r. 741 .  mr. speaker , i thank the gentleman for yielding me this opportunity and take great privilege in coming to the floor today to place into the public realm a concern that is deep-seated in the city of toledo and the state of ohio which i am so honored to represent .  it in fact deals with corporate manslaughter .  i stand today to oppose any weakening of osha statutes , and support the owens bill to strengthen worker safety and protection .  for , in fact , if those protections had been in place , the men i am going to tell members about today would not be dead .  our community would not be in mourning .  their families would not be in mourning .  we have all observed with awe the marvelous photos of construction workers sitting on i-beams swinging above some of our nation 's major cities .  high above new york city is one photo that comes to mind , as we admire the skill and the daring of these americans who put their lives on the line every single day .  these tradespeople indeed build america .  i can not think of a citizen in our country that does not respect their prowess and their skill .  well , the worst construction accident in the history of the state of ohio occurred in our city on february 16 of last year .  it occurred on a federal project , a federal project that i had authorized and that has been being built now for several years .  i was so proud when we passed that legislation .  i said this is going to be a federal project which is going to be built without one death , and we worked for almost 2 1/2 years to sign a safety agreement with each of the trades involved in this project and with the major company and the state of ohio .  it was difficult to bring them all to the table .  i said i did not want this to be another mackinaw .  i did not want dead men at the base of another river .  instead , i hoped we would build this project and demonstrate respect for those doing the work .  well , on february 16 , 2004 , these four men lost their lives .  several others were seriously injured on this job .  crushed to death on this job were ironworkers mike phillips , age 42 ; arden clark , age 47 ; mike moreau , age 30 ; and robert lipinski , jr. , age 44 .  i can not tell members what it was like to go to the funeral of each of these men .  how poignant , how unforgettable to be with those families following an accident i know could have been prevented .  but , yes , there were people in this city , people in our capital of columbus , people in that company who did not care , who simply did not care .  one of the men who lost his life , his nickname was bubba , bubba lipinski , he was such a magnificent man .  he weighed about 320 pounds .  he was not heavy-set ; he was just strong .  he was about 6 feet 6. when i walked into the funeral home , his casket was the size of a child 's casket , a mountain of a man , crushed to death .  joe blaze , the president of the local ironworkers observed , `` what happened will affect our community for generations. '' the local paper , the toledo blade , reported , `` workers told investigators the crane 's rear legs , '' this is , the crane that fell , `` were held up with 14 inches of shims and no anchors in the footers while each front leg had shims in only one of only two anchors. '' the workers were literally crushed when this million-ton crane moved , and it just could not hold itself .  and it fell , crushing them to death in the process .  the question really is , why did it fall ?  incredibly , its feet were not tied down .  and people knew that .  people in the company knew that .  there are internal memos that show that they knew that .  but though the accident occurred over a year ago , the state of ohio , that i view as an accomplice in this willful manslaughter , will not release inspection records .  osha will not permit its inspector general at the department of labor to give us the pre-accident inspection reports .  so , who was on site ?  who was not on site ?  who should have inspected ?  who did not ?  moreover , there seems to be an issue of whether the federal government had responsibility to inspect a `` launching gantry crane '' , which is a specialized type of crane , that is , whether osha really had responsibility for inspecting launching gantry cranes as opposed to other types of cranes .  another major wrinkle , is that this particular crane , and there were two of them , was made in italy , not the united states .  the crane was imported .  the men were a little uncomfortable with that .  they generally build their own cranes and then build bridges using those cranes .  yet the state of ohio assured the workers that it was of equal measure to any crane built in the united states .  but there seems to be a little stickler in the osha regulations that osha may not equally regulate foreign imported cranes to the same standards expected of u.s. made cranes .  they are not held to the same standard .  hmmm , why would that be ?  i tried last month during the markup of the labor , health and human services appropriations bill to include simple report language in that bill , which is never denied to a member of this house , merely asking the department of labor 's occupational safety and health administration to gather all records relating to the inspections that should have been done on the job , or lack thereof , prior to the accident and to provide them to the public record as well as to provide any communications that have occurred with the u.s. department of justice related to this accident .  this was denied to me as an elected representative of the people of my district .  it was denied to me by the republican majority of this house , by the republican majority of my committee , and by the republican leader of the committee that is on the floor today .  i am angry .  i am very angry .  they do not want any oversight .  they want the weaker osha regulations .  they do not care about these men .  they do not care about their families .  i have asked the majority to hold oversight hearings regarding osha 's action or inaction in this i-280 federal interstate highway accident .  no word yet .  no word yet on their willingness to agree for a request for a hearing .  surely the congress has an oversight responsibility in a matter as serious as this one .  osha 's midwest office has ruled there was willful negligence on the job .  and for reasons not completely understood , although they ruled willful negligence , they had to change the ruling .  the ruling has now been changed .  we do not know who changed the ruling .  we want to know that .  now it has been termed `` unclassified '' .  it has gone from willful negligence , or corporate manslaughter , to unclassified .  what does that mean ?  it probably means that as the individual court cases move forth locally , somehow civil litigation is going to be affected by a careful dance of words .  how absolutely cruel .  cruel .  we talk about being pro-life .  you are looking at a pro-life member , and every one of those lives means everything to us .  they went to work faithfully .  they worked hard .  they did magnificent work .  i was up on that bridge last winter .  it was blasted cold up there and windy .  i represent the saudi arabia of wind up there on lake erie .  they went to work in 32 degrees below zero .  it was so cold with that wind factor .  now guess how much osha is able to fine the company , and this is a $ 300 million to $ 400 million project , how much is osha able to fine the company and others responsible for this serious loss , a total of $ 70 , 000 for each lost life .  $ 70 , 000 for each lost life ?  that is travesty .  for 4 lost lives , ohsha will impose a fine totalling $ 280 , 000 on a $ 300 million-plus project .  that equals a fine of .0009 % .  .  .  almost embarrassing were it not so wrong .  and , the money goes to the u.s. treasury ; it does not even go to the victims ' families .  what kind of country is this ?  what kind of shop are we running here ?  well , in my opinion , in cases of such gross negligence and criminal manslaughter , there should be more than civil damages and osha fines .  our chief of police who is a very measured man said these men were murdered .  there is criminal wrongdoing here .  you know the amazing thing about our law , though this is a $ 300-plus million transportation project , i can not even dedicate a few percentage points to give money to our local county prosecutor to investigate the nature of the negligence get to the bottom of this .  the department of labor does not allow it .  the department of transportation does not allow it .  how do we find out what happened ?  my questions are , where was osha ?  who was investigating and who was inspecting on site ?  where was the state of ohio department of transportation ?  where was their inspection ?  why did they sign an acceleration agreement with the company -- to make work on the project move even faster when the workers were a year and a half ahead of schedule ?  who knew those footers were not tied down , both at the front and back ends of the launching gantry crane ?  did osha purposely not inspect what is termed a launching gantry crane ?  did osha not inspect nor require equal standards on a foreign made crane similar to one that is made in the united states of america ?  why did i have to jump start the negotiation of a safety agreement before construction started ?  why did osha not do that ?  why did the u.s. department of transportation not do that ?  why did the state of ohio not do that ?  the state of ohio has got their head in the sand .  those in charge are hiding in columbus somewhere under the sidewalk .  you can not even find them .  here we have the largest transportation project in ohio history with criminal manslaughter , and they are all taking the duck .  why is this congress undermining what little authority osha ever had ?  what are we doing here ?  and who are we doing it for ?  fru-con , the major contractor ?  they have been responsible for five deaths in the last year at two different project sites .  that is quite a record .  we have now been told osha has not developed a standard or promulgated a rule stating that foreign-manufactured cranes , like this one , must equal or exceed u.s. safety standards .  who is responsible ?  on whose hands does the blood of these men lie in this house ?  on whose hands does it lie ?  i have a pretty good idea .  recommendations for such a standard were made nearly a year ago but not acted upon .  why not ?  why not ?  why has this congress not demanded and implemented as soon as possible these regulations ?  or made meeting u.s. standards a condition of eligibility for federal funding ?  there is a serious abdication of responsibility here .  we were always taught in school , there are sins of commission and there are sins of omission .  both sides of the ledger you are accountable these men died , in my view , because of the apparent willful negligence of our u.s. department of labor and the office of safety and health within it that was supposed to be set up to protect their lives as well as their allies here in the congress who are completely undermining worker safety laws , they have abdicated their responsibility not just as lawmakers but as human beings to their fellow men and women to conduct aggressive oversight .  the state of ohio , as the contractural agent for the federal government , fell asleep on its oversight .  the fact there are 4 dead men , and a half dozen injured is grim testament to that .  i have appealed already to our committee on education and the workforce to hold hearings into this tragedy in ohio .  the hearings ought to be held in ohio .  it is my hope that , in spite of the actions being taken today , there might be some accountability , some conscience out there that asks -- no , that demands -- that this congress act on behalf of the mothers and the fathers and the wives and the children and every single person in our community that goes under that bridge every day or looks at that construction project , all the people that still lay wreaths at the site , they are numerous , all the prayers , all the offerings , all the memories that are there forever .  i want to say to my colleague from new york , mr. owens you have my strongest support on your bill .  i am so sorry that i have to come here to the floor today and speak these words that i know , for the families back home , is so very hard to listen to .  but i feel it is my responsibility as the only voice they have got here .  i want to say to the ironworkers union , if i can hold my composure , you deserve a lot better than this .  you serve us with great distinction .  we value the lives of your members and the faith that they put in us to protect them .  some of us take this obligation as a sacred obligation .  we salute them .  mr. speaker , i yield myself such time as i may consume .  i want to make my comments on this bill very briefly .  essentially , h.r. 741 weakens the fundamental policy of the secretary of labor while enhancing the powers of the osha commission .  such action would create two divided regulators and a great deal of confusion .  the secretary of labor is best able to regulate and enforce safety standards , and as such , the authority should remain with her .  this is just plain common sense .  i urge my colleagues to vote `` no '' on h.r. 741 .  we do not need more confusion .  more confusion is only a way to trivialize and make osha less effective .  mr. speaker , i would like to turn my attention to an issue that should be of great concern to all members of this body in relation to this particular subject , and that is worker deaths and serious injuries .  between 5 , 000 and 6 , 000 american workers are killed on the job every year by willful and negligent safety violations on the part of errant employers .  i have talked about that already .  the surviving family members killed by corporate wrongdoing deserve much more than just our sympathy , however .  they deserve immediate congressional attention and action .  instead of considering these bills to weaken osha , we should be strengthening provisions of the occupational safety and health act .  we should be considering a bill like h.r. 2004 , the protecting america 's workers act , which i introduced on april 28 to coincide with workers ' memorial day , a day set aside every year to honor workers killed on the job by safety violations .  mr. speaker , i yield myself such time as i may consume .  mr. speaker , the critical question is what more important things should we be doing ?  this commission bill which creates confusion , to our knowledge , is still not sanctioned by the administration or the secretary of labor .  why are we putting such great amounts of time and energy into proposing new powers for this commission when there are other more important things that we ought to be addressing ?  and the statement by the gentlewoman from ohio ( ms. kaptur )  was all related to what other important things should we be doing .  why can we not have hearings when there is a major accident with four men being killed under the circumstances they were killed in ohio ?  why can we not call in osha and demand that there be an expedited investigation ?  why are citations allowed to be unclassified ?  this committee , the committee on education and the workforce , has oversight over the work of the department of labor and osha .  why can we not get better answers ?  why can we not consider my bill , h.r. 2004 , the protecting america 's workers act , which will call for penalties for corporations who are guilty of the kind of neglect that led to the deaths of the four workers in ohio ?  even by conservative estimates , 15 workers in this country will be killed on the job today , july 12 .  they will be killed due to serious safety lapses on the part of their employers .  why are we wasting our time playing around with the adjustment of a commission when these workers deaths are still going on in america ?  i spoke earlier about the fiery explosion some 3 months ago at the bp plant in texas city that killed 15 workers and injured more than 100 others .  this happened three months ago .  it is not ancient history .  why has this committee with jurisdiction not examined that explosion more closely here in washington ?  i had also previously mentioned the bridge collapse in toledo , which the gentlewoman from ohio ( ms. kaptur )  discussed in greater detail .  many other cases of worker deaths , equally as tragic and preventable , only make local headlines .  they only know about them locally .  and they go on in different parts of the country because we are not aware of the seriousness of the situation .  the fact is that much of what happens in one area can be prevented from happening in another area if we would just address those serious issues .  every year in new york city , for example , a number of unprotected construction workers are killed by free-falls from buildings and collapses of faulty scaffolds and concrete walls .  almost 8 months ago in walnut creek , california , a gas pipeline explosion killed five workers , and badly injured four others .  the list goes on and on .  we welcome this opportunity to get on the record from both the members of congress and the american people the fact that these things are continuing -- this steady rate of somewhere between 5 , 700 and 6 , 000 workers dying each year -- and it has been going on too long .  why not address the fact that this is something that can be stopped ?  we can change the death rate by having a more effective osha instead of playing around the edges , as these four bills are doing .  in the words of a new york state supreme court justice , these worker deaths in new york were not simply `` random accidents '' but rather , and i am quoting the judge here , `` tragic certainties. '' `` tragic certainties. '' the workers died as the direct result of some employer 's willful safety violations or serious negligence .  what is even more reprehensible is that too often , and in the specific worker death cases i just referred to , the employers responsible for these fatalities are repeat safety offenders .  in a forum i held last year entitled , `` jobs to die for : inadequate enforcement of u.s. safety standards , '' i heard from the grieving parents of 22-year-old patrick walters .  patrick was buried alive on june 14 , 2002 , working on a sewer pipe in a 10-foot trench .  patrick had spoken before about his fear of being suffocating because he was repeatedly sent down into the trenches without any protective equipment and without a metal trench box .  we have a picture of patrick here .  he is the young man at the top tier of the poster to my right .  i mentioned patrick 's employer before , moeves plumbing , with respect to h.r. 739 .  i did this because moeves plumbing is a repeat safety offender .  the firm has been the subject of 13 osha inspections since 1989 .  patrick died only weeks after osha had cited moeves plumbing for willful trenching violations .  when osha settled the case of patrick walters ' death with moeves plumbing , however , they changed the willful violation to an `` unclassified '' one .  have we heard that before today ?  unclassified , just as they did in the case of ohio .  it was not a willful violation , but an unclassified violation .  a weak osha , a corrupt osha changed it to `` unclassified. '' without a willful violation , the solicitor of labor would not recommend criminal prosecution of moeves plumbing .  as patrick 's parents told me last year : `` we need to get some stiffer penalties and some muscle behind it , or moeves ' company is going to kill another child again .  they will .  it 's only a matter of time. '' patrick 's parents , who still live in the cincinnati area , continue to see moeves employees working inside trenches without any cave-in protections .  as patrick 's father told a reporter in march of 2005 , march of this year , about the owner of moeves plumbing : `` she 's killed two people now , and she 'll probably kill two people again .  it 's obvious she 's not listening to what osha is telling her. '' under the current osha act , the maximum penalty any employer can receive for causing the death of a worker , considered a misdemeanor , is 6 months in prison and a $ 10 , 000 fine .  six months in prison and a $ 10 , 000 fine .  unlike surviving relatives of other crime victims , family members of workers killed on the job are left without any victim services or assistance under current law .  they even lack a voice in any osha investigations of their loved ones ' deaths .  they also lack any voice in osha 's subsequent negotiations with culpable employees over the downgrading of initial citations and fines tied to the worker fatalities .  by stiffening criminal penalties for those found guilty of blatant safety violations that result in worker deaths , the protecting america 's workers act will make other employers think twice about ignoring basic health and safety rules that risk workers ' lives .  h.r. 2004 incorporates in its entirety the provisions of a bill i introduced last year , and that was called the workplace wrongful death accountability act .  both bills would make it a felony offense to kill a worker and provide for a term of no more than 10 years in prison .  a felony offense to kill a worker , and there will be a term of no more than 10 years in prison .  for a second offense , the maximum term for a culpable employer would be 20 years in prison .  fines would be set in accordance with title 18 of the u.s. code , which is standard practice for all other criminal matters .  in other legislative matters , everyone agrees that holding people accountable by such means as stiffened penalties serves a critically important deterrent purpose .  we are often on this floor talking about the need to not be soft on crime , to come with the hardest possible punishment as a deterrent .  yet i know that there are many on the other side of the aisle who are absolutely allergic to what i am proposing here , the prospect of holding accountable any employer whose willful or grossly negligent safety offenses kill workers .  they do n't want to hold accountable any employer whose willful or grossly negligent safety offenses kill workers .  the opposition to holding such bad actors accountable does not even waver in instances where a number of workers are killed by the same safety violations over a 5- or 10-year period .  the opposition also does not waver no matter how many workers are killed by an employer 's egregious safety offenses .  i am heartened , however , by the fact that yesterday 's `` inside osha '' reports that senator enzi from wyoming , who chairs the health , education , labor and pensions committee , supports stiffening criminal penalties for health and safety violations that kill workers .  as i understand it , senator enzi and i might differ on the maximum penalty for corporate manslaughter , but we agree on the need to make this a felony offense .  i believe senator enzi would prefer to see a maximum prison sentence for a first offense set at 18 months , whereas my bill would set the maximum at 10 years , in accordance with standard criminal law .  senators kennedy , corzine , and others introduced the protecting america 's workers act on the senate side ; and they agree with setting the maximum penalty for corporate manslaughter at the 10-year mark .  mr. speaker , the protecting america 's workers act would also extend osha coverage to millions of workers who currently lack the protection of workplace safety and health laws .  among others , these include public employees in a number of states and localities , certain transportation workers such as flight attendants , and a number of federal workers , as well as those in public/private entities such as the nuclear regulatory commission .  moreover , this act provides stronger protections for any worker who reports safety and health violations of an errant employer .  this bill requires osha to investigate any workplace incident that results in the death of a worker or the hospitalization of two or more workers .  at the same time , it gives surviving family members of workers who are killed greater participation rights in osha 's workplace investigation and penalty negotiation process with the respective employers responsible for these fatalities .  moreover , it prohibits osha from downgrading willful citations in worker fatalities , downgrading them to this `` unclassified '' category .  they should not be categorized as `` unclassified '' ever again .  last , but not least , this bill that i propose strengthens workplace prevention efforts by requiring employers to cover the costs of personal protective equipment for their employees .  mr. speaker , i want to commend the new york committee on the safety and health , nycosh , joined by cosh committees in other states , for launching a national campaign against corporate killing .  this grassroots campaign will alert workers and the wider public about the importance of ensuring employers do not place profits above basic safety measures at the expense of workers ' very health and lives .  this is a serious business that this committee ought to be about .  this is a serious business that ought to be on the floor today .  this grassroots campaign says what congress should also be saying , that it is important to ensure that employers , that bosses do not place profits above basic safety measures at the expense of workers ' health and lives .  mr. speaker , the time for the protecting america 's workers act is now .  although we have been making progress and making the american workplace safer in prior administrations , that progress has stalled , and we need to act immediately in a serious manner and stop the kinds of adjustments that are taking place in the bills that are on the floor today .  mr. speaker , on that i demand the yeas and nays .  mr. speaker , i rise in opposition to h.r. 741 .  instead of working to strengthen osha standards , my republican colleagues have presented yet another piece of legislation aimed to weaken it by undermining the clout of the secretary of labor .  the secretary of labor should be the final authority on how osha law is interpreted , and this bill undermines the secretary 's authority ... ..  giving the commission too much latitude .  the secretary of labor needs an unbiased group of peers during the appeals process .  if the commission 's authority on the interpretation of osha law trumps the secretary of labor , what legal basis would the secretary have to appeal a decision with which he/she disagrees ?  the commission 's role is to fact-find and review while the secretary of labor is the enforcer .  if the commission becomes both the fact-finder and the enforcer , the employee can not be ensured protection from bias .  this legislation undermines the entire appeals process .  it is unnecessary and not in the best interests of the employer or the employee .  if the administration was really interested in helping workers , it would n't be focusing on these unnecessary semantics in the law .  but instead , it would be granting workers something they really need , like increased minimum wage or stricter penalties for employers that ignore safety regulations .  i urge my colleagues to join me in supporting real worker reforms , not legislation promoting the erosion of worker protections .  mr. speaker , the administration 's priorities are wrong , and i urge my colleagues to join me in opposing h.r. 741 .  madam speaker , i rise in opposition to this bill .  what sounds like a very small change in the rules could have very large and unwelcome consequences .  the way the law works now , if an osha inspector noticed the trench that the gentleman from new york just made reference to and gave that employer a notice that the trench needed to be properly put together so it would not cave in , under present law the employer has more than 2 weeks , 15 days , to decide whether to contest that citation .  and if the employer fails to contest the citation , the law presumes that the violation ought to stand and there is corrective action taken to try to protect the worker .  now , sometimes employers do have surprises or accidents or situations beyond their control and they mean to object to the citation , but they fail to do so .  they fail to file the paper on time , or they have some other surprise or circumstance .  the law , as the gentleman from new york said , already provides for that circumstance .  on a case-by-case basis , osha is able to say there are special circumstances which justify missing the 15-day deadline .  in the law , he or she who has the burden of proof loses .  what this bill does is to shift the burden of proof to osha to prove that the 15-day deadline was somehow unreasonable , instead of properly vesting the burden on the employer to show that there was an accident or a surprise that made them fail to hit the 15-day deadline .  there is a reason that this deadline is so short .  it is because the circumstances that give rise to the violations put people 's lives and health at risk .  we should not shift this burden .  we should not approve this bill .  i would urge a `` no '' vote .  mr. speaker , i thank my friend from new york ( mr. owens )  for yielding me this time .  mr. speaker , i would be remiss if i did not tribute my friend from new york ( mr. owens )  for his years of advocacy for working people generally and in worker safety specifically .  year after year , month after month , the gentleman from new york ( mr. owens )  has come to this floor and raised these issues with great clarity and passion , and we very much appreciate his contribution in this area .  mr. speaker , i also appreciate the efforts of my friend from georgia ( mr. norwood )  who is the author of the bill .  i never thought i would see the day , i must say , mr. speaker , to the author where he would propose a bill that could create two jobs for lawyers .  on behalf of our profession , i guess we have to express our appreciation .  i do want to note my three bases of objections to the bill .  the first is it does provide the opportunity for what we might call court packing .  it does provide the opportunity by expanding the commission from three members to five , that we would find a fishing expedition for two members that would be more attuned to the ideological predilection of the administration .  i do not think either a liberal or conservative administration should have the right to pack the commission .  i think expanding to five members runs that risk .  secondly , i am concerned about the undue reliance upon legal training .  the language of the bill does not expressly require the appointment of lawyers , but it does indicate that the principal consideration for appointment is legal training or the lack thereof .  there are many positions in the federal administrative service that are very complex that are adjudicatory in nature that do not require formal legal training , and i do not believe that these positions should either .  i would note for the record that none of the nonlawyers appointed to this commission in its history have been appointed by democratic administrations .  all of the nonlawyers appointed , to my knowledge , have been appointed by republican administrations .  so my objection is not partisan or ideological .  i think that the door should be wide open for people of all backgrounds and ability to serve on the commission provided they are qualified .  my third objection has to do with what appears to be a minor provision , but could be a major provision .  it appears that the language would permit two members of the commission , now it is expanded to five , only two members of the commission to transact business on behalf of the commission .  i do not know of really any other decisionmaking body in the federal structure where a minority of the members can make an affirmative decision .  i know of institutions where a minority can veto a decision , bit i am not familiar with a situation where two members out of five could in fact act on behalf of the commission .  i have a concern about that as well .  so for these reasons i would urge opposition to the bill .  mr. speaker , i rise in opposition to this bill .  if the principle in this bill were applied to u.s. attorneys across the country , we would have a crime wave like you would not believe .  if prosecutors had to be sure they were going to win every time they brought a case , they would bring very few cases .  and that is the flaw in this bill .  there are four kinds of results when osha brings an action .  the first is the result when osha is right , when they win on every question .  and this bill does not affect that situation .  the second is the mixed result where osha wins some and loses some , where some of the charges that they make are downgraded , others are dismissed , and others are upheld in their entirety .  as i read this legislation , mr. speaker , in that case , it is indeed possible , perhaps likely , that osha would be held responsible for paying the attorneys ' fees of the defendant or accused party in that case .  the third kind of case osha brings is one where osha loses on all counts , but the claim was not unreasonable , where they made a judgment call and they thought they were right , but the adjudicator , the court , the decisionmaker made a different decision .  well , in that case , it is obvious under this bill that osha would be responsible for the counsel fees of the accused party .  the fourth kind of case is the case where osha brings a case that is unreasonable , that is arbitrary and capricious .  under present law , under such circumstances , osha is responsible for the counsel fees and attorneys ' fees of the accused party .  now , our friends on the other side say , well , this has been rarely invoked .  i believe they said there are three cases in recent years , in a long time , where this has been invoked .  and they draw from that the conclusion , mr. speaker , that there must be many , many cases where osha has done something arbitrary or unreasonable , but not been called on it , not been caught at it .  one could draw a very different set of conclusions from that record .  it could draw the conclusion that in the vast majority of the cases , even when they lose , their claims are reasonable ; and the adjudicator and finder of fact in law has found that although osha is wrong , they were not acting in a vindictive or unreasonable way .  this is a consistent principle across the board in federal law .  if a federal agency brings a case that is vindictive or unreasonable or patently unfair , then they are in fact responsible to pay the attorneys ' fees of the accused party .  but if they bring a case that is just wrong , but not unreasonable , where reasonable people could disagree before the case was brought as to whether it was right or wrong , then they do not have to pay the attorneys ' fees , and it is for a very good reason .  it is because there are judgment calls that prosecutors have to make , there are judgment calls that enforcing agencies have to make , and we do not want to chill that judgment by saying , we will bring the case if you are sure that you are going to win .  i am glad that the securities and exchange commission is not going to be held to this standard , because if every time someone on wall street were accused of stock fraud , the sec had to say , well , are we sure we are going to win before we bring this case , the cases of stock fraud that we have seen would be far more rampant than we have seen in recent years .  i am glad that other agencies , the mine safety agency is not held to this standard .  you know , the basic question here is whether we want to so chill and corrode the enforcement powers of the agency that we want to wipe them out all together .  i just do not think that makes any sense .  i think a far more sensible course would be to examine the existing legal provisions as to whether they go far enough , whether they are properly administered ; but to make this wholesale change is to say to osha , unless you are sure you are going to win , do not bring the case .  you know , every lawyer is asked by every client at some phase of the litigation , am i going to win ?  clients want to know this .  and competent , honest lawyers usually give an answer that says , i am not sure .  i can give you the probabilities .  i can give you the circumstances under which i think we can win , and the circumstances under which i think we would not win .  and a sensible client decides whether to go forward or not .  osha should have the same degree of discretion .  if it abuses that discretion , it should be punished .  if it does so on a consistent basis , we should change the law .  but i believe there is no record that would demonstrate that conclusion , and i think that this proposal would seriously corrode the ability of this much needed agency to protect the working people of the country .  i would urge both sides to cast a `` no '' vote on this bill .  mr. speaker , i rise in opposition to h.r. 740 and the three other osha bills under consideration today .  republicans are suggesting that our laws are hurting american jobs and productivity .  how can that be so when we continue even now to push for cafta that would outsource additional jobs outside of this area , not to mention many of the other jobs that we have lost ?  it is untrue .  it is bad enough that millions of americans are being shipped overseas .  we can not afford to lose any more jobs .  we have got to keep them here in the united states .  now the republicans want to weaken the protection that exists for our nation 's workers , our nation 's workers , working families and others who deserve the right .  last year , republicans passed fcc and eti , a bill that gave tax breaks to companies that moved to china and india , and i state that , moved to china and india .  half the time the consumers do not know who they are talking to when they pick up the phone because they are from some other company .  republicans need to stop confusing people on the reason why jobs are leaving the mainstream and are being sent to mainland china .  we should put the blame for losses in california and across the country where it belongs , and i state where it belongs .  they failed , the policies of this administration , the president 's so called compassionate conservatism has cost us 3 million jobs , and i state , 3 million jobs .  that is american jobs that we could put on working families .  please end this compassion .  remember that it was the president bush 's top economic advisors who claimed that sending american jobs overseas is a good thing .  well , we know it is not a good thing to american workers here and what it does to them .  weakening american labor standards and allowing american workers to be exploited as they are in third world countries is not the solution .  that type of thinking would put boys and girls out of the classroom and into the coal mines ?  these four bills are anti-worker , and i state , anti-worker , anti-safety , and they weaken the health and safety laws .  and they hurt the american workers and working families .  h.r. 739 weakens enforcement of the health and safety legislation by dragging out the debate for imposing penalties .  h.r. 740 weakens worker protection by packing commissions with partisan appointees who agree with the president 's anti-workers agenda , and i state , partisan appointees who agree with the president 's anti-workers agenda .  h.r. 741 encouraged frivolous challenges to labor law rules and interpretation .  h.r. 742 requires osha to pay attorneys fees for employers that win cases against osha .  however , these companies do not pay osha when they lose .  therefore , employers have nothing to lose by challenging those violations in court .  the real losers under this legislation are the american taxpayers , american workers , american families in this country , american people who work to make our country great .  as you can see , all four bills are antiworker laws , and the only way to justify them is to trump up charges that worker protection laws are costing american jobs and hurting american productivity .  that is not true , because it is american families , american workers who have made this country great .  we need to keep them here , and we need to protect them here in the united states .  mr. speaker , i urge my colleagues to oppose all four of these anti-osha bills .  mr. speaker , i rise in opposition to h.r. 740 and the other three osha bills under consideration today .  republicans are suggesting that our laws are hurting american jobs and productivity .  this is untrue .  it 's bad enough that millions of american jobs are being shipped overseas .  now republicans want to weaken the few protections that exist for our nation 's workers .  last year , republicans passed the fsc/eti bill that gave tax breaks to companies that move to china or india .  republicans need to stop confusing people on the reasons why jobs are leaving main street and being sent to mainland china .  we should put the blame for job losses in california and across the country where it belongs : the failed policies of this administration .  the president 's so-called compassionate conservatism has cost us 3 million jobs .  please end the compassion !  remember that it was president bush 's top economic advisor who claimed that sending american jobs overseas is a good thing .  weakening america 's labor standards and allowing workers here to be exploited as they are in third world countries is not the solution .  that type of thinking would take boys and girls out of the classroom and into the coal mine .  these four bills are anti-worker and anti-safety .  they weaken health and safety laws and hurt american workers .  h.r. 739 weakens enforcement of health and safety regulations by dragging out the date for imposing penalties .  h.r. 740 weakens worker protections by packing the commission with partisan appointees who agree with the president 's anti-worker agenda .  h.r. 741 will encourage frivolous challenges to labor department rules and interpretations .  and , h.r. 742 requires osha to pay attorney fees for employers that win cases against osha .  however , those companies do not pay osha when they lose .  therefore , employers have nothing to lose by challenging most violations in court .  the real losers under this legislation are american taxpayers and american workers .  as you can see , all four bills are anti-worker laws .  the only way to justify them is to trump up charges that worker protection laws that are costing american jobs and hurting american productivity .  mr. speaker , i urge my colleagues to oppose all four of the anti-osha bills .  madam speaker , i rise to oppose this bill which would give a pass to employers who do not meet workplace safety conditions .  we could have taken this opportunity to help hardworking americans feel a little safer in the workplace , or we could have made today 's priority giving some relief to middle-class families who are struggling to keep up with record-breaking gas prices , tuition increases , and health care costs .  instead , this administration has once again chosen in favor of the corporate sector and the special interests .  their reward in this bill comes at the expense of hardworking employees who depend on osha to keep an eye on their working conditions .  but when former executives win appointments to regulate the same industries in which they used to work , sound science and smart public policy usually tack a back seat to political favoritism and ideology .  this bill creates a new loophole around the 15-day deadline for contesting osha citations .  it is yet one more corporate handout that could have been better spent on job training , reversing the tide of outsourcing , or raising the minimum wage .  meanwhile , hard-working americans are increasingly faced with workplace conditions in which critically important safeguards are watered down , emerging problems are ignored , and enforcement is scaled back .  if osha already has the authority to review missed deadlines on a case-by-case basis , why would we need a bill that changes this process in a one-sided way that could further disadvantage workers , encourage litigation , and undermine health and safety protections ?  madam speaker , i believe the senate got it right last year when it declined to consider this or any of the other three proposed rollbacks of osha 's responsibility to hard-working americans .  i encourage my colleagues to vote against all four of these bills .  madam speaker , i rise today in opposition to these measures .  this legislation moves in the wrong direction for worker safety .  we are spending valuable time changing small portions of osha to overturn court decisions and tweak the law to benefit industry .  i 'm not sure we should be spending time addressing all these small issues when we know that reporting requirements are a problem and we could be doing something about it .  it does n't matter in which facility these accidents occurred .  the fact is people should know if an accident has occurred and the company managing the site should report it whether contract workers were involved or not .  if someone is seriously injured at my home , regardless if i 'm at fault , there will be a report by the paramedics or the police and it will list my residence .  in march , fifteen people were killed in a refinery accident in texas city .  none of them will be on the injury site log because the law does n't require them to list contract workers .  since 1991 we 've known reporting requirements should be changed to include contract workers .  the report recommending this was sanctioned by osha under the first george bush 's administration .  there is no reason the republican leadership could n't allow at least some discussion on the reporting issue today .  people have the right to know if they are applying for a job at a facility that has a poor safety record .  we should be talking about real issues instead of making things just a little better for industry .  we 've known about this problem for 14 years .  that 's too long to avoid making a simple change to the law to require site-based reporting of injuries .  madam speaker , i rise in opposition to h.r. 739 .  it is part of a package of bills that we have before us today that serve no purpose that i can see but to gut the occupational health legislation record before this congress .  current law requires that employers challenge a citation or notice of a failure to abate a hazard within a 15-day time period .  there is a reason that this is a short time period .  it is because these are serious matters .  the short deadline was enacted to encourage expeditious handling of cases and to ensure that the workplace hazards are corrected in a timely manner .  the commission already has the ability to review specific cases of missed deadlines in a manner that protects the & lt ; center & gt ; & lt ; pre & gt ; [ page : h5685 ] & lt ; /pre & gt ; & lt ; /center & gt ; it is clear that h.r. 739 is designed to ease the burden on employers at the expense of the health and safety of workers .  this is the dramatic change in policy .  my colleague from georgia said the dramatic change in policy is somehow osha has gained regulatory authority .  no .  osha has always had regulatory authority for the last 35 years .  the real change is this dramatic change in policy that would delay the employers ' responsiveness to the health hazards and increase the time that workers have to work in unsafe conditions .  these measures would make it more difficult for employees to seek redress and would impede the enforcement of worksite safety and health provisions .  again , this is one of a set of bills that would serve to gut osha .  it puts aside , really , the seriousness of the matter here .  we do not want osha to become just an annoyance or a minor delay or an inconvenience or just the cost of doing business .  no .  osha should have teeth .  there are hundreds of thousands , if not millions , of americans , i do not know who they are , they do not know who they are , who today have their arms , their eyes , their health , even their lives because of osha ; and they do not know who they are .  but they can thank people like senator pete williams from new jersey and others , who 35 years ago realized that it is the appropriate role of the federal government to be involved .  i know there are those who think that it would be better if the federal government had never gotten involved in this .  i suppose they would say , well , the employee could sit down with the employer and the employee could point out the unsafe working conditions and the employer will surely take care of it because no employer wants his employees harmed .  it just does not work that way .  it did not work that way for the century before osha was passed .  let me repeat : there are hundreds of thousands of americans who have their eyesight , who have their arms , who have their health , who have their lives because osha has teeth , because osha requires prompt remedy to unsafe conditions .  madam speaker , i rise today to speak in opposition to h.r. 739 , a bill to amend the occupational safety and health act of 1970 to provide for adjudication flexibility with regard to the filing of a notice of contest by an employer following the issuance of a citation or proposed assessment of a penalty by the occupational safety and health administration .  in essence , this bill would amend current law to authorize the occupational safety and health review commission ( oshrc ) to make exceptions to the 15-day deadline for employers to challenge osha citations if the employer 's failure to meet this deadline is due to a `` mistake , inadvertence , surprise , or excusable neglect. '' this would weaken the ability of the occupational safety and health review commission to enforce the current deadline and would encourage increased litigation and disrupt osha 's ability to address workplace hazards in a timely manner .  osha is already `` astonishingly ineffectual '' in protecting workers ' lives .  in the past 20 years osha has failed to seek criminal prosecutions in 93 percent of the cases where employers ' willful and flagrant safety violations ended up killing workers .  ( new york times/december 2003 ) .  furthermore , according to a recent gao report , since 1996 , osha has cut resources dedicated to enforcement by 6 percent .  the u.s. lags behind other western nations in protecting workers ' lives .  a u.s. construction worker is 4 times more likely to be killed on the job than one in denmark .  ( center for worker rights 2004 ) .  as a new york state supreme court judge observed : `` why congress has adopted such a spineless response to industrial malfeasance is best left to voters to assess. '' ( newsday , 1/15/04 ) .  as responsible members of congress , we can not afford to vote for this bill .  i urge my colleagues to oppose h.r. 739 .  mr. speaker , i rise today to speak in opposition to h.r. 740 , a bill to amend the occupational safety and health act of 1970 by expanding the size of the commission that hears osha appeals from three to five members .  supporters of the measure argue that the panel has had difficulty meeting a quorum because of recusals and vacancies .  however , i would argue that the change would allow the current administration to stack the board with pro-business members .  many responsible employers are tired of continually being underbid by unscrupulous and reckless operators that refuse to spend anything on protecting workers ' lives or promoting public safety .  voting in favor of h.r. 740 , could potentially erode a basic respect for human life .  we must remember that workers killed on the job are someone 's son or daughter , husband or wife , and/or father or mother .  unlike other victims of crime , their lives are often seen as expendable .  as a mexican consular officer said : `` too many employers do n't see these people as human beings. '' bereaved family members suffer further upon discovery that federal law denies them justice .  if h.r. 740 is allowed to pass , we would be allowing the current administration to stack the board with pro-business members .  i urge my colleagues to oppose the passage of h.r. 740 .  mr. speaker , i rise today to speak in opposition to h.r. 742 , a bill to amend the occupational safety and health act of 1970 by making it easier for small businesses to recover attorneys ' fees from osha if the agency brought unjustified enforcement action .  small businesses under the bill are defined as those with no more than 100 employees and a maximum $ 7 million in net worth .  more than any of the other bills , h.r. 742 poses the greatest threat to worker safety and health .  osha , as is almost every other federal agency , is already required by law to pay attorneys ' fees and costs in any proceeding in which the agency 's charge is not substantially justified .  h.r. 742 singles out osha , alone among all federal agencies , to require it to pay attorneys ' fees and costs in any proceeding in which it does not win , regardless of why it lost and notwithstanding the fact that the position of the agency was substantially justified .  in effect , unless the agency can guarantee that it will win every case it brings , h.r. 742 punishes the osha for trying to enforce the law .  the osh act does not afford workers a private right of action .  if osha fails to enforce the law workers have no other means of doing so .  in summary , this bill , as would all the other osha bills considered today , would impede the enforcement of worksite safety and health provisions at the very time when more and more americans have identified safety as one of their foremost concerns .  according to a poll conducted in april by nbc and the wall street journal , 84 percent of americans want congress to pass legislation that ensures greater workplace safety and health .  supporting this bill would take us in exactly the opposite direction .  mr. speaker , i thank the gentleman from new york ( mr. owens )  for his defense of workers rights .  i rise in strong opposition to h.r. 742 and to any bill that seeks to weaken osha at a time when we should be strengthening it .  i further want to say that i think the passage of this bill sets a dangerous precedent because what we would be doing effectively is undermining osha , not only discouraging it from performing its statutory mission of making sure that the workplace is safe , but also setting the stage for depriving osha of any revenues that it would need to be able to enforce the law .  it also occurs to me that there is a question of the constitutional rights of workers here , that since osha is given rather exclusive jurisdiction to protect the rights of workers and to enforce workplace safety standards , that working people would in effect be deprived of due process of law and equal protection of the law .  so it seems to me there are constitutional issues here at stake as well .  the core mission of osha is to protect workers by enforcing safety standards .  this bill will undermine that mission .  it will alter osha 's ability to enforce , and it will leave workers in danger .  the latest numbers from the bureau of labor statistics show a rise in deaths of american workers on the job .  in 2002 , 5 , 524 workers were killed due to injuries on the job .  by 2003 , that number had risen to 5 , 575 .  in 2003 , 4.4 million , 4.4 million non-fatal workplace injuries were also reported .  let us remember what osha is : osha is the federal cop on the workplace safety beat .  h.r. 742 will discourage osha from enforcing the laws against dangerous workplaces .  instead , osha will spend its time weighing the odds of winning against the costs to its budget if it loses .  h.r. 742 would require osha to pay attorneys fees in any case which it does not prevail .  this would discourage settlements which save both time and money and in effect leave businesses with little or no reason to not contest charges .  imagine if congress were to consider a bill to require police departments to pay attorneys fees of a criminal defendant charged with reckless endangerment merely because they were acquitted or found guilty of a lesser charge .  would this house support that ?  the question answers itself .  why support h.r. 742 which , in effect , does this same thing ?  the nation 's workplaces will be more dangerous and more lawless if the changes made by this bill are passed .  this bill was designed to weaken enforcement of workplace safety laws and to in effect steal from exploited americans the protection from injury and the justice they deserve .  this legislation will severely handicap osha , the federal workplace safety force , by discouraging it from citing employers unless the agency is completely certain it will win .  this legislation will endanger americans , the vast majority of whom work for others to make a living .  they work in factories , in shops , in hospitals .  they work in nursing homes and in schools .  they are not the bosses who decide if and how businesses will obey the law .  instead , they face the consequences of those decisions , and they live and die by those decisions .  they need strong workplace safety laws and vigorous enforcement .  they need to have h.r. 742 to feed it .  current law already permits small businesses to recover litigation costs when the government position was not substantially justified .  in the year 2000 , 97.7 percent of all private establishments had less than seven employees and such establishments have a higher rate of occupational fatalities than establishments of more than 100 workers .  the fundamental question that faces this house here is , do workers have rights to fair compensation when they are hurt on the job ?  because this is not just about workers ; it is about the american family .  does a breadwinner have the right to be protected in the workplace ?  do we have an obligation as a congress to ensure a safe workplace ?  that is really the question that we are deciding here today .  we are acting as though the interest of business and the interest of workers is somehow divided .  the interest should be the same .  workplace safety should be the highest criteria .  we should not give up on workplace safety because of some odd notion that osha should pay if it brings a proceeding that is not upheld in a higher jurisdiction .  we as members of this house will pay a price if we fail to uphold workers ' rights , if we fail to uphold the rights of a safe workplace , if we fail to uphold the right to fair compensation if someone is injured on the job , if we fail in our moral obligation to assure that corporations have a responsibility to their workers .  this should not be a matter of democrat or republican .  it should not be a matter of labor management .  this should be an american commitment to safe workplaces .  and because of that i urge my colleagues to vote to defeat h.r. 742 and to work in a bipartisan way to assure that the american workplace is going to be safe for all those who toil for a living .  mr. speaker , i thank the gentleman for yielding me this time , and i thank him so much for his service to this committee and for his constant support of workers ' rights , workers ' health and safety , and the protection of their families if they are injured on the job .  the occupational safety and health act has substantially improved the safety of the american workplace to the benefit of the american worker .  far fewer workers are killed or injured today than was the case before the law was enacted .  despite this progress , too many americans continue to be sick or injured or killed in workplace accidents that could or should have been avoided .  every day , 15 workers are killed on the job .  another estimated 50 , 000 to 60 , 000 die every year due to occupational illnesses .  hundreds of thousands of workers face serious injuries on the job every year .  liberty mutual , the largest workers ' compensation insurance company , estimates that the direct cost of occupational injuries and illnesses is $ 1 billion a week .  two major workplace tragedies , one in texas this year and the other in ohio last year , underscore the need to strengthen , not weaken , the health and safety laws of this country .  on march 23 of this year , a huge explosion at the bp amoco texas city refinery killed 15 workers and injured 170 others .  although bp initially blamed contract workers for the explosion , it now appears that faulty equipment played a major role in this catastrophic blast .  as it turns out , the bp amoco refinery in texas city has been a repeat safety violator .  repeat safety violations also played a key role in the deaths of four iron workers when a massive bridge crane collapsed near toledo , ohio , in 2004 .  the contractor fru-con failed to address urgent issues with anchoring the crane properly raised by the crane 's european manufacturers .  osha fined fru-con $ 280 , 000 and cited the contractor for willful safety violations .  rather than taking decisive action on behalf of hardworking employees , like increasing the minimum wage , stopping runaway pension terminations or expanding access to health care , these bills do nothing more than jeopardize the health and safety protections of employees on the job .  h.r. 742 significantly diminishes the protections of occupational safety and health by discouraging osha from even enforcing the occupational health and safety act and punishing taxpayers unless the agency , like perry mason , can win every case .  that simply is not going to happen , and this bill weakens workers ' protections .  h.r. 740 unnecessarily expands the size of the occupational health and safety review commission , and h.r. 741 weakens the fundamental responsibilities of the secretary of labor .  it contorts the law and confuses enforcement responsibilities of both the secretary and the review commission .  finally , h.r. 739 creates a legal loophole for employers ' obligations to meet the 15-day deadline for contesting an osha citation or notice of a failure to abate a hazard .  the deadline for an employer 's response was set at the 15-day mark to encourage both a timely correction of cited workplace hazards and expediting the handling of cases .  the commission already has the authority to review any missed deadlines on a case-by-case basis in a manner that protects both employers and workers .  we have an obligation to help hardworking americans and their families to have a safe and healthy workplace .  these bills do the opposite .  taken together , these bills will significantly weaken osha enforcement laws , and i urge my colleagues to oppose h.r. 742 , 741 , 740 and 739 .  madam speaker , we are here again .  we went through this marathon a year ago .  we have had several sets of hearings and markups on these four bills , and one would think they are very important .  they are important , but in the reverse way .  they are not important to protect the health and safety of working families in america .  they are important because they are trying to trivialize the whole safety component of the department of labor and the whole safety responsibility of the government .  they want to trivialize it and make it seem insignificant and unimportant .  i understand each of the four bills amending the occupational safety and health act now on the floor will be considered individually , and i would therefore save my comments on the specifics of the other three bills until the appropriate time .  when you consider these four bills as an entire package , however , it becomes very clear that they will seriously erode the enforcement of u.s. safety standards , they will undermine the ability of the occupational safety and health administration to enforce on-the-job safety standards , and will only add to more worker deaths and more serious injuries .  it will not only lead to the department of labor becoming more and more the department against laborers , the department against working people ; by bringing these bills to the house floor , the republican leadership shows yet again just how out of step it is with the american people .  in this case , the house republican leadership is backing four bills to weaken osha at the very time that the american public is demanding the exact opposite be done .  according to a recent poll sponsored by the wall street journal , eight out of every ten americans believe congress should be passing legislation to ensure greater health and safety in the workplace .  let me repeat that : the wall street journal , which is hardly a liberal publication , they sponsored a poll in april 2005 revealing that 84 percent of those surveyed want lawmakers to pass bills ensuring safer workplaces in america .  that is 84 percent .  parade magazine , another mainstream publication , tells us the same story .  an article published in the april 10 issue of parade magazine assessed our national priorities based on 2005 dollar allocations for government programs .  the article juxtaposed business versus safety , pointing out that this year 's funding for the securities and exchange commission is $ 888 million and the small business administration , which is $ 580 million , far exceeds that for osha , which is $ 464 million , and the consumer product safety commission which is $ 63 million .  the amount dedicated to business , parade magazine concludes , is close to $ 1 billion more than that dedicated to safety in this simple comparison .  the osha bills being voted on today will only serve to exacerbate this huge divide between federal investments in business versus safety .  one of the bills , h.r. 742 , will even require osha to spend part of its meager budget rewarding certain employers who are repeat safety violators .  this bill would reimburse firms that are repeat safety offenders for attorneys ' fees whenever osha citations are downgraded on a technicality during administrative or court proceedings .  the american people are serious about seeing tougher laws enacted to improve safety on the job , and their concerns are well founded .  in a hearing last month , the u.s. chemical safety board underscored the fact that chemical dust explosions represent a serious industrial hazard in this country .  since 1980 , 200-plus explosions and dust fires in u.s. plants caused the deaths of 100 workers and significant injuries to 600 others .  even though the chemical safety board chair stresses that these & lt ; center & gt ; & lt ; pre & gt ; [ page : h5679 ] & lt ; /pre & gt ; & lt ; /center & gt ; as recent headlines about worker deaths in texas , new york and ohio have revealed , american workers are far too often killed or severely injured as a result of safety violations by employers who have lengthy histories of similar offenses .  in march 2005 , 15 workers were killed and more than a hundred injured in a massive british petroleum refinery blast .  a preliminary chemical safety board investigation indicates that faulty equipment was a key factor in this terrible explosion which also destroyed buildings and cars .  yet osha had already fined the same british petroleum plant $ 100 , 000 in september 2004 for safety violations that at that time had killed two workers .  in fact , osha had previously cited and issued a fine of $ 63 , 000 in march 2004 to that british petroleum plant for 14 safety violations .  even though the texas city british petroleum plant is clearly a repeat safety offender , osha routinely reduces penalties and downgrades violation findings as a means of encouraging correction of the problem .  i suppose that is what is alluded to by this voluntary compliance .  they are going to voluntarily comply one day , but in the meantime , many more workers will be killed .  a newly released analysis of 2 , 500 inspections of new york construction sites reveal similar patterns of serious and frequent violations of osha safety standards .  nearly two-thirds of all violations in 2003 involved faulty scaffoldings and/or the failure to provide fall protection equipment .  scaffolding collapses and falls are the most common cause of construction worker hospitalizations and deaths of three or more workers .  sponsored by the new york committee on safety and health , this report recommended more vigorous osha enforcement and the hiring of more osha inspection officers , among other remedies .  under its current staffing , it would take osha 108 years to inspect all of the workplaces in the united states .  yet this administration has proposed that we hire 41 new auditors to audit organized labor records .  if we have the money for 41 new auditors to audit the petty cash records of labor unions , surely we ought to be able to find the money to hire more inspectors and have those inspectors be inspectors not on a voluntary compliance basis but on a serious basis to save lives and injuries .  osha also lacks adequate safety standards to cope with globalization .  four ironworkers killed last year by a massive crane collapse near toledo , ohio , were working for a contractor with a history of repeated safety violations .  moreover , osha has yet to release a standard an advisory committee drafted a year ago to govern inspection of cranes manufactured in europe , as the crane in the ohio fatalities had been .  in closing , the american people are watching us .  by an overwhelming majority , the public wants to pass bills to strengthen osha , not to weaken osha .  they want safer workplaces in america .  the bills before us now do just the opposite .  i urge my colleagues to join me in voting `` no '' on these bills .  madam speaker , i include for the record letters from the afl-cio , the teamsters , the uaw , afscme , as well the united steelworkers in opposition to these bills .  american federation of labor and congress of industrial organizations , washington , dc , july 11 , 2005 .  dear representative : i am writing to express the strong opposition of the afl-cio to h.r. 739 , h.r. 740 , h.r. 741 and h.r. 742 , four bills that would erode worker protections under the occupational safety and health act .  these bills , which are scheduled for a floor vote the week of july 11 , 2005 , would change established law and procedures to benefit employers and stifle osha enforcement .  they would do nothing to enhance workers ' safety and health protection , while weakening the oshact .  we are particularly concerned about h.r. 742 and h.r. 741 , because these two bills would significantly undermine osha 's ability to carry out its core mission .  h.r. 742 .  occupational safety and health small employer access to justice act -- this bill requires taxpayers to pay the legal costs of small employers who prevail in any administrative or enforcement case brought by osha regardless of whether the action was substantially justified .  the language expands provisions of the current equal access to justice act , which already permits small businesses to recover litigation costs where the government position was not substantially justified .  h.r. 742 will have a chilling effect on both osha enforcement and osha standard setting .  osha will be hesitant to cite employers for violations of the oshact unless there is absolute certainty that the enforcement action will not be challenged , will be upheld or there will be no modification in the terms of action .  similarly , unless osha is certain that a standard will not be challenged ( which they are routinely for any number of reasons ) , it would not dare begin the rulemaking process on any hazard no matter how grave the threat of the hazard to workers .  no rational public policy would be furthered by discouraging osha from issuing citations that are substantially justified , but as to which the across all industries , establishments with fewer than 100 employees ( which in 2000 made up 97.7 percent of all private sector establishments ) have a higher rate of fatal occupational injury than do establishments with 100 or more workers .  effectively hampering osha 's enforcement ability in these establishments would be devastating to workers , resulting in even higher rates of worker fatalities , injury and illness .  the number of osha enforcement actions that involve contested adjudications is fairly small , the penalties are generally modest , and the substantive and procedural standards already accommodate the interests of small-business litigants .  to be clear , there is no evidence that this legislation is necessary .  the result of h.r. 742 will be a skewed set of enforcement priorities and a risk of injury , illness and even death to workers .  h.r. 741 .  occupational safety and health independent review of osha citations act -- this bill would change the act to give deference to the commission regarding the interpretation of osha standards .  the bill seeks to overturn a 1991 decision by the supreme court that found that deference should be given to the secretary of labor as the official responsible for enforcing the oshact .  the secretary of labor has much greater experience and expertise regarding the interpretation of safety and health standards and regulations than the commission .  the secretary develops the rules and is responsible for their broad application .  in contrast , the commission only reviews the application of standards in those few cases that are contested and come before the commission .  giving deference to the commission would create an incentive for challenges to the secretary 's rules and interpretations , undermining the secretary 's policymaking and enforcement functions .  h.r. 740 .  occupational safety and health review commission efficiency act -- the bill requires that the number of members on the commission be increased from three to five and that all members must be attorneys .  it also seeks to allow members whose terms have expired to continue serving on the commission for an additional 365 days in cases where no successor has been confirmed by the senate .  the review commission has operated with three commissioners since it was first formed in 1970 .  increasing the size of the commission from three to five members is not necessary and would enable the bush administration to stack the review commission with business-friendly appointees .  the requirement that the commissioners be lawyers would exclude a large pool of talented persons from service .  allowing members whose terms have expired to continue serving on the commission for an additional 365 days unless a new appointee is confirmed by the senate may mean a sitting member could have a de facto seven year term , dending on the political makeup of the senate and white house .  the current requirement that a member step down at the expiration of his or her term is appropriate and maintains pressure on all parties to work together to select a qualified person for the commission .  h.r. 739 .  occupational safety and health small business day in court act -- this bill seeks to excuse employers who miss the fifteen-day timeframe to contest citations and failure to abate notices .  its practical effect would be to make numerous excuses into legal reasons for missing the fifteen-day timeframe in which employers currently must respond to osha citations .  this action will only encourage more litigation .  the idea of the fifteen-day requirement is to give all parties a reasonable timeframe in which to take action , and to ensure that the case is moved along as quickly as possible so the hazards cited will be addressed in as timely a manner as is possible .  the commission should be able to review any as demonstrated above , these bills undermine the intent of the congress when it enacted the oshact more than 30 years ago .  generally speaking , these policies and procedures have been serving workers well for over 30 years .  american workers deserve a safe and healthy workplace and the full protection the oshact can offer .  these bills would surely diminish the protections provided to workers by the oshact .  for these reasons , the afl-cio opposes these four bills , and we strongly urge you to vote against each of them .  sincerely , william samuel , teamsters , afl-cio , washington , dc , july 11 , 2005 .  dear representative : on behalf of the more than 1.4 million members of the international brotherhood of teamsters , i am writing to express our strong opposition to four bills that would amend the occupational safety and health act : h.r. 739 , h.r. 740 , h.r. 741 , and h.r. 742 .  these bills , which the house of representatives will consider this week , do nothing to enhance safety and health protections for workers .  rather they would change established law and procedures to benefit employers the teamsters union opposes h.r. 742 , the occupational safety and health small employer access to justice act , which would require that osha ( i.e .  the taxpayer ) pay the legal costs when it loses a case against a small business that prevails in administrative or judicial proceedings , regardless of whether the governments position was substantially justified .  we view this as another effort to impede osha 's and the departments efforts to enforce the law and provide an avenue for workers to seek redress .  we see no justification for such an arbitrary departure from the current practice of each party paying for its own litigation costs for only one class of public prosecutions .  we know of no other agency , charged by statute to enforce the law , which is impeded from fulfillng its responsibility with respect to a meritorious complaint because it can not guarantee the outcome .  in effect , h.r. 742 says that unless the agency is absolutely certain that it can prevail -- that it is absolutely certain that its enforcement action will not be challenged , will be upheld , or no modification will occur in terms of action -- it will be penalized ( budgetarily ) for fulfilling its statutory obligation to protect the safety and health of all workers ( union and non-union ) and to provide an avenue for redress .  furthermore , h.r. 742 would effectively gut osha 's statutory authority to promulgate safety and health standards .  unless certain that a standard will not be challenged ( and many routinely are for a number of reasons ) .  osha would not dare ( or be extremely reluctant , at best ) to begin a rulemaking on any hazard no matter how serious .  we believe that h.r. 742 is tantamount to a stealth repeal of osha 's statutory authority to issue workplace safety and health standards .  h.r. 739 , the occupational safety and health small business day in court act , seeks to excuse employers who miss the current fifteen-day time frame to contest citations and failure to abate notices .  we believe this proposal does nothing more than create `` artificial '' legal reason for failing to respond in a timely fashion .  it is an `` about face '' from ensuring that an osha case is moved along as expeditiously as possible to ensure that workplace hazards are addressed in as timely a manner as possible , thus improving worker safety and health .  the current practice of a case-by-case review is the most appropriate way to ensure that hazards are addressed as quickly as possible , and to reinforce the importance of workplace safety .  h.r. 740 , the occupational safety and health review commission efficiency act , would require that the number of commission members be increased from three to five , that all members be attorneys , and that members be able to serve until a successor is confirmed .  we see no justification , or need , for these changes -- unless one wishes to tilt the `` playing field '' against workers .  first , the level of enforcement does not warrant five commissioners .  and , there is no reason to limit the pool of talented people for consideration .  further , the current system helps ensure that all parties work together to select qualified people to serve , and to do so in a timely manner .  h.r. 741 , the occupational safety and health independent review of osha citations act , would , we believe , turn the osh act on its ear '' , by giving deference to the commission .  presently , the secretary of labor is given deference as the official responsible for enforcing the osh act .  the bill would take away the authority held by the secretary in bringing cases to the court of appeals and the supreme court , an important avenue of redress to protect workers from dangerous and unhealthy workplaces .  each of these bills will undermine , subtly in some instances and egregiously in the case of h.r. 742 , workplace protections and the protection that the osh act was designed to provide workers .  the teamsters union urges you to reject each of these bills .  sincerely , michael e. mathis , & lt ; b & gt ; international union , united automobile , aerospace & amp ; agricultural implement workers of america -- uaw , & lt ; /b & gt ; washington , dc , july 11 , 2005 .  dear representative : this week the house is scheduled to take up four bills to amend the occupational safety and health act of 1070 -- h.r. 739 , h.r 741 and h.r. 742 .  the uaw opposes each of these anti-worker bills and urges you to vote against them .  h.r. 742 , the `` occupational safety and health small employer access to justice act , '' would require taxpayers to pay the legal costs of employers with 100 or fewer employees and worth up to 7 million who win administrative or enforcement cases brought by osha or any challenge to an osha standard , regardless of whether osha 's actions were substantially justified. '' the uaw is deeply concerned that this legislation would have a tremendous chilling effort on the ability of osha to enforce workplace health and safety protections .  in addition , this bill would reverse the time-honored rule of american jurisprudence that requires litigants to bear their own cost and fees .  there is no need for such legislation because the equal access to justice act already protects parties from administrative overreaching by compensating them in cases where the government is not `` substantially justified '' in bringing a law enforcement action , or under other `` special circumstances. '' the other three bills , h.r. 739 , h.r. 740 and h.r. 741 , all relate to the occupational safety and health review commission ( commission or oshrc ) .  in considering these bills , the uaw urges the house to bear in mind that oshrc functions as an intermediate appeal for employers , between decisions of the occupational safety and health administration ( osha ) and the u.s. courts of appeal .  during the time a case is on appeal to oshrc , employers do not have to pay any assessed penalties , nor do they have to abate the violations for which they were cited .  thus , procedural delays at oshrc serve only to postpone justice and to delay the correction of workplace safety and health violations .  h.r. 739 , despite being mislabeled the `` occupational safety and health small business day in court act , '' is not limited to small businesses .  instead .  it would effectively eliminate the statutory time period within which all employees -- not just small employers -- must contest an osha citation or assessment before it becomes a final order of the commission .  this bill would excuse employers from the fifteen-day deadline for contesting osha citations and lead to more litigation .  the purpose of the fifteen-day requirement is to give all parties a reasonable amount of time to take action and to move cases along as quickly as possible so that hazards can be abated in a timely manner .  the bill excuses employers from missing their fifteen-day deadline but does not extend the same provisions to an employee who challenges the period for abatement in a citation .  this provision is one-sided and unfair to employees .  under the statute , an employer contests by simply mailing a letter to the osha office .  therefore , contestation is not burdensome , and the statutory time period should be retained .  the federal courts already provide relief , pursuant to rule 60 ( b ) of the federal rules of civil procedure , for employers who can show that their failure to meet filing deadlines was due to mistake , inadvertence , surprise , excusable neglect , fraud , misrepresentation or misconduct by an adverse party , so long as the employer can show the existence of a meritorious defense .  there is a body of established case law pursuant to rule 60 ( b ) that would be subject to wasteful re-litigation if h.r. 739 were enacted .  h.r. 740 , the `` occupational safety and health review commission efficiency act , '' would expand the number of oshrc commissioners to five from three and authorize sub-panels of three members to exercise all of the powers of the commission .  it would also authorize commissioners to hold their position at the expiration of their six-year term , until a successor has been nominated by the president and confirmed by the senate .  finally , it would add a new requirement that commissioners must have legal training .  the uaw submits that the only good to come from adding two commissioners to oshrc would be the creation of two more jobs to an economy that has already lost millions of industrial jobs .  otherwise , it is wasteful and unnecessary to expand oshrc , which has been composed of three members since it was established in 1970 .  indeed , the uaw believes that congress should give consideration to abolishing all of the oshrc commissioners ' positions , allowing appeals to go directly from the decision of the commission 's administrative law judges to the courts of appeals , as is done with social security administration appeals .  the uaw also objects to the legal training requirement because it would work against persons with workplace health and safety expertise .  h.r. 741 , the `` occupational safety and health independent review of osha citations act , '' would overturn a 1991 supreme court decision holding that oshrc 's interpretation of a health or safety standard may not be substituted for the interpretation of the secretary of labor .  the bill explicitly provides , `` the conclusions of the commission with respect to all questions of law shall be given deference if reasonable. '' because it is for all practical purposes only employers who appeal cases to oshrc , there is never an instance when the commission would be expanding workers ' rights by substituting its interpretation for the secretary 's .  in other words , h.r. 741 would give unprecedented and unwarranted authority to the oshrc to take away workers ' workplace health and safety protections .  for all of the reasons set forth above , the uaw strongly opposes h.r. 739 , h.r. 740 , h.r. 741 and h.r. 742 .  we urge you to vote against these anti-worker bills that would undermine workplace health and safety .  sincerely , alan reuther , american federation of state , county and municipal employees , afl-cio , washington , dc , july 11 , 2005 .  dear representative : on behalf of the 1.4 million members of the american federation of state , county and municipal employees ( afscme ) , i am writing to urge you to reject h.r. 739 , h.r 740 , h.r 741 and h.r. 742 .  these bills would weaken important worker safety and health protections that are guaranteed under the occupational safety and health act ( oshact ) .  collectively , these bills would erode important osha policies that have served to protect the health and safety of workers all across this country .  h.r. 739 would allow employers to avoid current law 's fifteen-day deadline to contest osha citations .  such a change would result in a delay in correcting dangerous work place hazards in a timely manner .  h.r. 740 is simply an unnecessary move to stack the occupational safety and health review commission with new members while requiring that they have legal training .  h.r. 741 would remove policymaking and the interpretation of osha 's policies from the secretary of labor and give that responsibility to the osha review commission .  such a move would be an extreme departure from the original intent of the oshact and make it difficult we urge you to reject all four of the measures .  these bills will erode a law that has served american workers well .  sincerely , charles m. loveless , united steelworkers , july 11 , 2005 .  dear representative : the united steelworkers ( usw ) , a union which represents industrial workers in virtually every sector of the economy , strongly opposes the four bills amending the occupational safety and health act ( osha ) which the house is scheduled to take up tomorrow .  h.r. 741 , h.r. 740 and h.r. 739 all relate to the occupational safety and health review commission ( oshrc ) while h.r. 742 adds new rules under which small employers can receive compensation for attorney 's fees .  proponents of these bills paint them as simply eliminating bureaucratic `` red tape '' with a `` common-sense fix , '' but workers ' safety and the protections established under the 1970 osh act and the rights of claimants to a timely response to osha citations can not be equated to red tape .  perhaps most onerous is h.r. 742 , the `` occupational safety and health small employer access to justice act , '' which requires taxpayers to cover the legal costs of small employers who prevail -- or partially prevail -- in any administrative or enforcement case by osha , or in any challenge to an osha standard , regardless of whether the action was `` substantially justified '' .  in other words , this bill will go beyond the protection already provided to litigating parties in the equal access to justice act which currently protects a party in cases where the government is not `` substantially justified '' in bringing about a law enforcement action .  h.r. 742 will effectively act as a deterrent to osha enforcement and standard setting .  statistics show that small employers ( those with fewer than 100 employees ) have a higher rate of fatal occupational injuries than those with more than 100 workers .  since small employers account for over 97 % of all private sector employers , usw vigorously opposes any bill that could further weaken osha enforcement efforts and standard setting for this proportionally large group of private sector small employers .  h.r. 741 the `` occupational safety and health independent review of osha citations act '' overturns a 1991 supreme court decision and undercuts the secretary of labor 's authority to interpret and enforce the law .  h.r. 741 would order judges in cases appealed to the courts to give deference to the oshrc , giving the commission unprecedented authority to interpret osha standards .  the usw strongly urges you to vote against h.r. 741 and keep policymaking and the interpretation of osha policy with the secretary of labor .  h.r. 740 the `` occupational safety and health review commission efficiency act '' proposes to expand the number of commissioners from three to five , require commissioners to have a legal training and allow commissioners to hold their position after their six year term expires until their successor has been appointed by the president and confirmed by the senate .  since 1970 the oshrc has been composed of three members and there is no need to expand the commission while excluding from the commission persons with workplace health and safety expertise , but no law degree .  the usw also urges you to vote against this bill .  finally , h.r. 739 or the `` occupational safety and health small business day in court act '' would excuse all employers -- not just small employers -- that miss the fifteen-day deadline for contesting osha citations .  in other words , this bill will effectively eliminate the 15-day deadline , further delaying the timeframe for moving a case through the process and further delaying actions to correct the possible hazard .  the usw opposes this bill as redundant , since employers already have recourse for missed deadlines in the federal courts under rule 60 ( b ) of the federal rules of civil procedure if the failure to contest meets certain requirements .  sincerely , assistant to the president , legislative and madam speaker , i reserve the balance of my time .  madam speaker , i yield myself such time as i may consume .  h.r. 739 specifically creates a legal loophole for bypassing the obligation on an employer 's part to meet a 15-day deadline for contesting osha citations .  as such , the bill promotes increased litigation .  given that the osha commission already has the authority to review any missed deadlines on a case-by-case basis , such litigation is completely unnecessary .  that bears repeating .  at present , the osha commission relies on its longstanding practice of reviewing , on a case-by-case basis , any missed deadlines .  so what is the rationale for this bill ?  h.r. 739 is not only superfluous and offers nothing productive that is positive and new ; it also negatively serves to delay the timely correction of workplace safety violations and hazards .  the 15-business-day timeline for an employer 's response was set to encourage speedy removal of work site hazards as well as the expeditious handling of cases .  it establishes a reasonable time frame for protecting all the parties .  it protects the employers as well as the workers .  by contrast , h.r. 739 will needlessly place some workers at greater risk of on-the-job injuries or fatalities .  let me give you a few concrete examples to illustrate the risk .  in march 2003 , osha began an inspection of strack , incorporated , a pipeline company in atlanta , georgia .  osha inspectors had seen strack employees working in a trench that was up to 12 feet deep .  yet a trench box , designed to protect workers , had been left on higher ground and more than 100 feet away from the site .  in may 2003 , osha issued strack , inc .  a willful citation with a proposed fine of $ 44 , 000 for failure to use a trench box .  fortunately in this case , the hazards were corrected before anyone was killed .  as an osha inspector put it , cave-ins occur quickly and without warning ; and then it is too late to protect workers .  when it comes to trenching , failure to correct hazards in the 15-day required period can have fatal consequences .  as jeffrey walters of cincinnati , ohio , testified before me last year , his only son patrick died in a cave-in on june 14 , 2002 , only weeks after osha cited the firm patrick worked for , which is moeves plumbing , for willful trenching violations .  in fact , moeves plumbing had been inspected by osha 13 times before patrick 's death .  moreover , another worker had died while digging trenches for the same plumbing company several years before patrick died in the same way .  all of this is to say that speedy correction of work site hazards cited by osha can often mean the difference between life and death .  thus , when osha finds a safety violation , it clearly merits immediate attention .  i urge my colleagues to vote `` no '' on this bill again .  madam speaker , i yield myself such time as i may consume .  madam speaker , i would like to just say that when we say the republican majority is trying to trivialize the role of osha and the role of safety in the workplace , there is good foundation for this .  when this administration took power , the present administration in the white house , one of the first acts that they perpetrated was the repeal of ergonomic standards at the urging of , of course , republican members of congress .  they repealed the ergonomic standards that had been in process with a lot of bipartisan development and support over a long period of years .  when the secretary of labor was elizabeth dole , great steps were made ; and slowly we reached a point where we had ergonomic standards to pass .  the current bush administration 's first act was to repeal ergonomic standards , to toss them aside and to send a message that workers in the workplace are not that important , working families are really not important , working conditions in america are not important .  the history of osha is that step by step they have saved thousands and thousands of lives .  one of the worst industries for safety before osha came into existence was the construction industry .  the construction industry is still one of the most unsafe industries , but it has made tremendous strides in terms of saving lives as a result of being forced to follow certain kinds of standards by osha .  i think we need more light thrown on this subject , and for that reason we have prepared some information for each member of the committee by district , and they can get familiar with the problem in their district with this information that we have compiled .  for example , according to the bureau of labor statistics in 2003 , there were 200 worker deaths in the state of illinois .  but in the 13th congressional district of illinois , 69.5 percent of all the state 's deaths took place .  i think the member of congress from the 13th district ought to know that and take a look at what has happened in that district .  this packet that we want to prepare for each member includes a chart detailing the statistics .  the chart also lists the worker deaths according to the industry the person worked in and also the type of incident that was responsible for their death : was it a fall , contact with equipment , et cetera .  the information is also broken down between government workers and those working in the private industry .  this packet also includes a census report for each one of the districts showing how it relates to the surrounding areas , et cetera .  we will prepare this for each member to just let them know how serious a matter this is in terms of their own immediate districts .  we think working families in america should not be treated as if they lived in a third world country , and a lot of third world countries mores are being attempted by certain u.s. industries .  particularly the construction industry , the construction industry looks for the most vulnerable people , immigrants .  illegal immigrants are employed in large numbers in the construction industry .  and i come from a city where 40 percent of all male blacks are unemployed , according to two studies , two studies that confirm that 40 percent of all male blacks are unemployed .  yet there is a tremendous amount of construction going on , and if we go around the construction sites , we will find that the workers doing the manual labor , unskilled labor , are immigrants ; and in many cases there are tremendous accidents , and these people are shuffled off and frightened and intimidated to the point where they never even report it .  they do not have any workman 's compensation , let alone feel that they have the right to be protected under the osha laws .  a review of more than 2 , 500 osha construction site inspection records in new york state from the year 2003 found that nearly one third of all osha construction violations in the state were of scaffolding or fall protection requirement violations , more than any other standard .  the organizations involved in the analysis also said the results of this study as well as a separate review reveal troubling data about the plight of immigrant workers in the construction industry .  their analysis , titled `` lives in the balance -- immigrants and workers at elevated heights at greatest risk in construction , '' was prepared by the new york state trial lawyers association and issued by the new york committee for occupational safety and health and the association of community organizations for reform now , called acorn .  two other organizations make the road by walking , and the new york immigration coalition , also sponsored the study .  the study reviewed all construction site osha inspections conducted in the state during 2003 .  now , personally , i know and i have related on this floor , the total accidents that have taken place since then in new york city .  five immigrant workers lost their lives in a trench that was being constructed without proper safeguards .  i want to repeat that there is a class problem developing in america .  there is a class problem .  those in power are insensitive to the needs of those who are out there working on the front lines , whether it is in domestic service or in dangerous jobs like construction , trucking and a number of chemical plants .  these are dangerous jobs , but they have to be done .  our industries can not survive without people who work in those dangerous jobs .  they deserve all the protection we can give them .  just as the soldiers on the front lines in iraq , afghanistan or anywhere else always deserve the best that we can give them .  every soldier is automatically a hero when he goes out to fight for his country , because for every one who goes out to fight , there are a few hundred thousand left behind who will what we have found in this present war in iraq is that people on the top , with their class-conscious sentiments at work , did not provide at first the kind of protection that should have been provided to the soldiers on the front lines out there .  the soldiers come from the same working families .  i can not stress enough the need for all americans to recognize that we are all in this together .  we have a governor of new york state now whose son was in the national guard in a program that required that , once he came out , he had certain duties and obligations .  this governor 's son now is asking for a waiver .  he does not want to go to iraq ; he wants a waiver .  what kind of a message is that sending to all of the mothers and fathers of young men and women who have gone off to fight in iraq in terms of our society ?  the person with the power does not want to make a sacrifice of his son .  mr. speaker , i yield myself such time as i may consume .  mr. speaker , i want to sum up and repeat , because i think it deserves repeating .  first and most importantly , no one has really shown a need to increase the size of the commission from three to five members .  we find it very unusual that the majority party with great emphasis on saving dollars on education and a number of much needed programs , wants to waste a little money on two additional members , create a little bit more of a bureaucracy by having two more members to make a decision .  instead of five people , three people can make this decision .  they have been functioning with three members since the creation in 1970 .  why should it be any different now ?  given the enormous deficit spending promoted by this republican majority , there is no real purpose in adding members and swelling the ranks .  last but not least , i find it quite ironic also that my colleagues on the other side of the aisle want to tack on the requirement that the commission members have legal training .  i think you have heard the expression that our colleague , the gentleman from georgia ( mr. norwood )  , often makes about the government being over burdened with lawyers .  so i am surprised to hear that the leaning of this bill as we read it would certainly require more appointment of lawyers or somebody similar to lawyers .  there is no demonstrated need for such a requirement .  there is no demonstrated need for this particular addition to the bill .  the capacity of osha to produce cases is steadily shrinking as a result of the steady chip-away strategy of the republican majority .  they have chipped away at the budget every year .  osha is far smaller and far less effective than it was when the republican majority took power in the house .  certainly that was accelerated when the republicans took control of the white house as well as the house .  so osha is under attack in a way which produces less work for such a commission .  why should we increase the size of the commission when there is less work for it ?  it is part of the pattern to chip away in every little way and trivialize what osha is all about .  at the same time , the only parts of the department of labor that are being increased are those parts that are aimed at attacking organized labor , the organizations that represent working families .  we happen to know there is a great push on to drive the unions into the ground with trivial audits , financial audits mostly , of petty cash , the receipts for cab fare and receipts for lunch .  various efforts are underway at this point to force labor unions to defend themselves from bookkeeping errors .  the same kind of zeal needs to be expressed in the way that osha is staffed and manned to provide the basic necessities to keep our workplace safe for our workers .  let us just discuss for a moment the 2 , 578 osha violations in georgia in 2002 .  the occupational safety and health administration in 2002 issued an average of seven citations a day to georgia businesses that year .  osha found 2 , 578 violations of its rules during 1 , 481 inspections of companies operating in georgia and documented more than 50 workplace deaths in that year .  in 2001 , osha issued 2 , 962 citations , more than eight a day , and 1 , 596 inspections in georgia .  so 2002 had improved a bit from 2001 .  but i think it would be good if members got in touch with what is happening in their states and in their districts .  the atlanta business chronicle documented this information in an article published march 23 , 2003 .  at that time , the atlanta business chronicle had documented safety concerns in three of georgia 's largest companies , the home depot incorporated , the georgia pacific corporation , and united parcel service incorporated .  but as osha records show , safety is a widespread concern among many georgia companies .  on february 24 , osha issued a list of 14 , 200 u.s. facilities that had accident and illness rates at twice the national average .  the national average is about three illnesses or injuries for every 100 workers that are serious enough to cause employees to lose time from work .  included in osha 's list were 563 workplaces in georgia , and more than 200 of them were in the atlanta metropolitan area .  wal-mart stores , the nation 's largest retailer , had the largest single number of georgia facilities on the list , 11 .  of the companies based in georgia , united parcel service had the most facilities on the list with 174 nationwide .  out of all the georgia companies during 2003 , durango-georgia paper company in st .  mary 's was fined the most by osha .  osha assessed durango-georgia $ 258 , 000 after an august 19 boiler explosion that killed two workers and injured one .  osha found 48 violations during an investigation of that accident .  in addition to the safety violations that contributed to that explosion , osha cited the company for allowing employees to work at heights of up to 50 feet without fall protection and for requiring employees to stand on a conveyor belt to remove jammed logs without adequate protection against being caught in a machine .  it was not the first large fine against that paper manufacturer .  osha fined the company $ 157 , 000 after an accident had resulted in the double amputation of a worker .  in 2000 , the company had paid $ 220 , 250 for 12 citations .  the pattern goes on and on .  the american workplace is not a safe place .  it becomes more complicated all the time .  the new chemicals , new machines , and new challenges , the building of houses , buildings and facilities at higher heights , for example all lead to complications .  we talk about small businesses , and it is true that a large number of construction businesses are small businesses .  that does not make the work that their workers do any less dangerous .  the fact that they are a small business does not remove the fact that their workers must use scaffolding .  small business workers have trenches that they dig .  they are doing work that is very dirty and very dangerous .  the workers in small constructin firms deserve protection .  small contractors are also the ones who are most likely to disobey immigration laws and have large numbers of people who are illegal immigrants working in their facilities .  and therefore , i have noted before we have a noticeable large number of deaths of immigrants in the construction industry .  and this is not confined to georgia or any one state .  this spreads right across the country .  the employers of construction companies know that they can save money by disobeying the law and using illegal immigrants .  so it has become a major problem .  again , the working families of america deserve better .  we have come to the point where our economy is compared to other economies in our global partnerships around the world .  we compare ourselves and say , oh , it is awful that we can not compete better with china .  well , china was organized as a country which has dictatorship of the proletariat .  dictatorship of the proletariat meant workers were going to be charge .  all of the unions in china are collapsing to the government .  china produces a large part of its consumer goods in prisons .  they produce a large part of their consumer goods in factories where workers are paid less than a dollar a day .  it is not useful for us to invoke the third world countries , the developing countries and china -- i do not know what china would be categorized as -- with exploiting companies and decide that we ought to be more like that so we can be more competitive .  some allege that one way we can be more competitive is to make the workplace less safe , by providing employers with a situation where they do not have to worry about workers ' safety .  china -- as a dictatorship -- can do what they want to with their workers .  they can continue , as i pointed out , pay workers the lowest possible wages , and they can also not spend any money on guaranteeing worker safety .  so given the fact that we are on the floor for the second time in 2 years with these four bills , it is an opportunity for us to educate our colleagues as to the seriousness of the current situation in the american workplace today .  we must be more sensitive to the fact that our working families are out there suffering .  our health care situation does not get any better .  we need to come to the rescue of private enterprise in terms of their pension funds collapsing .  and their health care systems are so expensive that they are now calling for help from the government .  all of this is part of a threatening and more intimidating atmosphere that mushrooms all the time against the interests of working families .  and the attack on osha , which is consistent , the harassment of osha , the downgrading of osha , the chip-away erosive effect of osha is all part of that pattern .  a department of labor which declares it has no money to really have an osha that functions appropriately is the department of labor which has managed to spend a great deal of money on the faith-based initiative .  we noticed that large amounts of money from the department of labor have gone to faith-based initiatives over the last few years , and that is a great mystery as to how that money was doled out , under what criteria was it given to certain faith-based organizations .  i think one got more than $ 1 million .  it was on the front page of the new york times .  the department of labor had given a grant to one faith-based group for more than $ 1 million , and we do not know what it is the dol is doing here .  this all happened right before the november 2004 election .  mr. speaker , i yield myself such time as i may consume .  the two speakers prior to me have raised the question of outsourcing , and other people have challenged the relevancy of that topic to this particular set of bills .  every statement i read from industry complaining about the competitive edge that other nations have mentioned the fact that our environmental laws and our safety laws and our minimum wage , that combination , puts them at a disadvantage .  so it is logical to conclude that part of the exercise today is to take away one of those disadvantages , to the degree it can be accomplished .  and if you have to chip away at it with bills like this and remove worker safety as an expense that has to be undertaken .  this civilized nation was built by workers and the workers deserve to have a fair break .  but those that want to reduce us to the level of third world nations or want to imitate china are going to pursue the kinds of bills that we have before us today .  so i want to just conclude with another section from the report of the afl-cio , their annual report on worker safety .  i just want to read a few excerpts , which i think are excerpts that are important to educate our members .  more than 306 , 706 workers can now say their lives have been saved since the passage of the osha act in 1970 .  unfortunately , too many workers remain at risk .  on average , 15 workers were fatally injured and more than 12 , 000 workers were injured or made ill each day of 2003 .  these statistics do not include deaths from occupational diseases , which claim the lives of an estimated 50 , 000 to 60 , 000 workers each year .  according to the bureau of labor statistics , there were 5 , 559 workplace deaths due to traumatic injuries in 2003 , which was a slight increase from the number of deaths in 2002 , when 5 , 534 workplace deaths were reported .  wyoming , of all places , led the country with the highest fatality rate , 13.9 people per 100 , 000 .  the lowest state for the fatality rate was 1.5 per 100 , 000 , which was reported in delaware .  the construction sector had the largest , as i said before , the construction sector had the largest number of fatal work injuries , 1 , 126 in 2003 ; followed by transportation and warehousing , which had 805 injuries ; and agriculture , forestry , fishing and hunting , which had 707 injuries .  industry sectors with the highest fatality rates were agriculture , forestry , fishing , and hunting , 31.2 per 100 , 000 in hunting .  mining had 26.9 per 100 , 000 .  and transportation and warehousing , 17.5 per 100 , 000 .  so you can see we are not here just to talk in support of the blue states , the urban states , the rust belt states ; but the rural areas are suffering quite a bit also .  the workers there -- the rural areas -- suffer in terms of the large number of fatalities in the workplace .  transportation and material-moving occupations had the highest number of fatalities , 1 , 388 , followed by construction and extraction occupations , with 1 , 033 fatal injuries .  the occupations of greatest risk of work-related fatalities based on the number of fatalities per 100 , 000 employed were logging workers .  their occupation had 131.6 fatalities per 100 , 000 ; fishers and related fishing occupations had 115 deaths per 100 , 000 ; and aircraft pilots and flight engineers , 97.4 deaths per 100 , 000 employed .  very interesting that simple guys out there , fishers and logging workers , are in the same category as aircraft test pilots and flight engineers in terms of deaths and injuries .  so our concern is universal , and the mission of osha is important and should not be denigrated or trivialized by this kind of legislation .  mr. speaker , on that i demand the yeas and nays .  mr. speaker , i yield myself such time as i may consume .  mr. speaker , this is the worst of all of the osha bills before us today .  it would treat osha differently than any other federal agency .  under the equal access to justice act , if any agency 's position is not `` substantially justified , '' the government must pay the opposing party 's attorneys ' fees .  this bill says osha must pay attorneys ' fees to a prevailing employer , even if osha 's actions were reasonable .  under this bill , osha will find itself paying the attorneys ' fees of repeated safety violators whose penalties were reduced on a technicality .  the real-life example of an employer by the name of eric ho in houston illustrates the problem here .  eric ho hired undocumented workers and exposed them to high levels of asbestos , and this represents the kind of case that could not be tolerated by osha .  even after a city worker issued a stop-work order , eric ho secretly had the workers stay on the job .  eric ho 's workers ate at the site .  they worked throughout the night , and some even slept at the site .  ho then directed the workers to tap into what would prove to be a gas line , and there was an explosion which resulted in one contractor and two workers being seriously injured .  in the end , osha cited eric ho for ten serious violations and 29 willful violations .  in turn , eric ho challenged osha and a divided osha review commission eventually downgraded eric ho 's citations .  although eric ho was sentenced to prison in a prosecution led by the under the equal access to justice act , when a federal agency is not substantially justified and cites an employer and the employer prevails in judicial proceedings , the employer is reimbursed for his attorneys ' fees and expenses by the u.s. treasury funds .  under this bill , h.r. 742 , osha would be required to reimburse from its own budget an employer who prevails in judicial or administrative proceedings , even when osha was `` substantially justified '' in issuing its initial citations .  now , they say , still , they are not trying to chip away at the effectiveness of osha , destroying osha bit by bit .  osha would have to pay out of its own budget .  whereas , under the other circumstances that are similar , u.s. treasury funds are used .  thus , any time an osha staffer conducts an inspection and discovers serious safety violations , that inspector would have to second-guess himself or herself .  osha 's inspectors will be forced to perform many mental gymnastics , trying to predict whether a citation , no matter how justified , might have the slightest chance of being adjusted or overturned on a technicality in review proceedings .  mr. speaker , members of both sides of the aisle agree that under its current budget and staffing configuration , it would take osha 108 years , 108 years to inspect all of the workplaces in america .  now , h.r. 742 would have the effect of tying the hands of osha inspectors behind their own backs , causing them to analyze each and every citation in the most serious minute detail .  in a sense this bill calls for osha inspectors and supervisory staff to become forecasters .  they will be required to predict any and all possible scenarios in which a specific citation might be reversed on a technicality .  in the meantime , the founding purpose of osha , to assure , quote , `` every working man and woman in the united states safe and healthful working conditions , '' that would be more or lose forgotten .  mr. speaker , there are members on the other side of the aisle who would have us believe that every osha inspector is like police inspector javert in victor hugo 's famous novel `` les miserables. '' these members compare every business owner to hugo 's noble character jean valjean , hounded by osha 's javertian inspector for having innocently slipped up on one point , one miniscule point of an obscure and archaic osha safety rule .  in turn , those members refuse to acknowledge the relevance of another great novelist , charles dickens , who captured bleak scenarios in which greed led the owners of blacking factories to subject child workers to inhumane and life-threatening conditions .  in reality , we do not have to turn to 19th century novels to enlighten us on workplace safety conditions in this country .  we need merely turn to the last year 's astounding new york times investigative series on worker deaths by david barstow .  reporter barstow reminded us all that someone harassing a wild burro on federal lands in 2004 would get a stiffer penalty , that is up to a year in prison , than an unscrupulous employer whose willful safety violations resulted in the death of a worker .  as i have repeated several times during today 's debate , that employer 's malfeasance could result in a sentence of no more than 6 months in jail .  however , if mr. barstow were to write his series this year , he would have to alter the comparison slightly .  it is not , i am afraid , that we are doing a better job of holding errant employers accountable for serious safety offenses .  rather , it is because a provision in the omnibus appropriations act enacted at the end of the 108th congress repealed the protection of wild burros and horses on federal lands .  so it is a different scenario ; but still workers are no better off , i assure you .  mr. speaker , i reserve the balance of my time .  mr. speaker , i reserve the balance of my time .  mr. speaker , how much time do i have remaining ?  mr. speaker , i yield myself the balance of my time and would like to point out that despite the rhetoric of my colleagues on the other side of the aisle , and we did hear again the last speaker mention the fact that one of the reasons we are attacking osha is because employers feel they can not compete with these regulations .  they can not compete with american workers being treated the way they are being treated .  the humane treatment of american workers stands in the way of profits and competition with the people who are in the developing countries and china .  they do not have to treat workers this way .  they do not have to spend the money , as i said before .  but i want to point out that this bill is hardly limited to small businesses .  the appearance or the notion that small businesses are being persecuted by osha , by the government , is an incorrect one .  according to the bureau of labor statistics , in 1998 there were more than 6.5 million private sector firms with 99 or fewer employees .  h.r. 742 applies to all firms with 100 or fewer employees with a net worth of $ 7 million or less .  these companies , those with a hundred or fewer employees and $ 7 million or less , comprise about 97 percent of all american businesses .  let me repeat that .  h.r. 742 applies to all but 2 or 3 percent of american businesses .  this is the broadest definition of small business that anyone could ever come up with or dream up .  it is similar to categorizing elephants as small mammals .  it does not tell the story as it should be told .  mr. speaker , when it comes to employment-related laws , congress traditionally defines a small business as one with 20 or fewer employees , 20 or fewer employees .  as a matter of fact , that is the definition used on annual congressional appropriation riders , which exempt firms of 20 or fewer workers from scheduled osha inspections , 20 or fewer workers , not 100 , as this bill treats .  mr. speaker , i would also point out that osha also has a long-standing practice of reducing penalties for small employers .  for businesses with 25 or fewer workers , any osha penalty is routinely reduced by 60 percent .  routinely reduced by 60 percent .  likewise , for businesses with between 26 and 100 workers , any osha penalty is reduced by 40 percent .  again , osha inspectors , in reality , are hardly like the draconian police inspector javert from the famous novel , `` les miserable. '' it is important , mr. speaker , to realize that there is a need for both parties to come together and for the republican majority to yield on its strategy to destroy labor unions .  there is a strategy that has been pursued relentlessly to destroy labor unions ; and in the process , working families of course get hurt because working families are represented by labor unions .  in the effort to destroy labor unions , everything related to them , it gives them some kind of power , has to be destroyed , among them including osha .  members of unions are likely to complain .  they are likely to insist on their rights .  they are likely to report violations .  osha is less likely to run over the interests of the workers if there is an accident or some problem .  so the relentless pursuit of labor unions is part of the problem with this legislation .  it has been brought back because it is a part of a master plan , and that master plan is to sort of distract our attention from the real issues related to safety in the workplace , distract our attention from the fact that it is really an employer protection act that we are concerned with .  employer protection at all cost .  the constituency of the republican majority party demands it all : destroy the kind of environment and atmosphere that working families have been used to for years in this nation .  let us change all that because it is not competitive .  it is not competitive .  it costs too much .  we can not compete with our overseas competitors .  we are , in the process , drawn into the trap of class warfare .  we hate to hear the term class warfare anywhere in america .  nobody wants to be accused of class warfare , but that is what it amounts to : working families against people who never get enough .  we have bloated capitalism .  aristotle said there are extremes of everything .  there are extremes to capitalism .  at one end of the spectrum , in terms of economic systems , you have communism ; at the other end you have reckless capitalism .  capitalism out of control .  capitalism so greedy it never gets enough .  i think democratic capitalism is the hope of the world , and we have enough experience now to know that democratic capitalism is the only system that really works .  but if you allow capitalism to go to extremes , it tramples on the rights of workers .  it tramples on the rights of consumers .  you know , workers are consumers .  there is a madness at work here .  as we destroy the buying power of workers , we are destroying that which makes our economy go .  we all agree , there is no debate about the fact that the economy of america is driven by consumer spending .  henry ford understood that very early when he said , i am going to make cars and pay my workers enough money to buy them .  that was a simple , commonsense idea that is at the heart of capitalism today .  two-thirds of our economy is dependent on what people buy .  we are going to destroy the consumers by destroying the conditions in the workplace which allow our workers to work productively and get paid appropriately .  the minimum wage of today , henry ford would see right away , is not going to allow our consumers to keep buying products .  we are lucky ; there is a sort of credit card fantasy , an oasis of credit card credit that is driving our economy right now .  but slowly , as we lessen the amount of money that flows into the hands of workers , as we move more jobs overseas and encourage outsourcing , as we give more and more of our dollars to china , because we are not giving all of our dollars to china , we are giving the dollars that they use for manufacturing , for production , but the trade with china benefits the wholesalers and retailers .  people are making big profits off china in this country .  we would not be dealing with china if somebody was not making big profits in this country , but it is skewed .  it is out of balance because in order to make big profits at the upper levels by producing products in a low-cost economy and getting the low-cost product , bringing them back into another economy with a different standard of living and selling those products at that standard , we are having consumers in america pay high prices for the lowest-priced goods that come from china .  and the people who sell those goods and buy them from china , they walk off with the profits , along with the chinese who produce those goods through the deals that have been made .  there is more wal-mart in china than there is in the u.s. , and more all of the time .  they find it so profitable to take the product , the production , the manufacturing to china , and bring back the products to capitalize on the sales here .  it is not going to work eventually .  we are catering to those who benefit at the top , but it is not going to continue to work because we are destroying our own consumer market .  we are going to wake up and find that the economy is going to come to a standstill because nobody is able to buy the products that we want to sell .  our own class war that we do not recognize and will not recognize will destroy us .  other evidence of a class war is the fact that we continue to give huge tax credits to the people at the very top who need it the least , yet we do not use the power of the federal government to increase the minimum wage .  we started this discussion about minimum wage , and we are going to end it on minimum wage .  the minimum wage is one way that we guarantee all americans have a part of american prosperity .  we should be paying something like $ 8 an hour in order to keep minimum wage competitive with when minimum wage was first instituted .  we should be paying about $ 8 an hour to enable those workers to buy the products that we want to sell and keep our economy going .  so minimum wage , we refuse to even consider .  congress has gotten huge increases in their own salaries , and refuse to consider a minimum wage increase for the workers at the very bottom .  is that not an element of class warfare ?  that is class contempt .  that is class hatred , to stamp on those at the very bottom and refuse to use the authority invested in us by the american people .  we have the authority to raise wages , but the same people who are being protected by these bills as far as osha is concerned by minimizing their expenses and minimizing any trouble they have to encounter in making the workplace safe , they are being protected by refusing to raise the minimum wage .  what is the ultimate danger here ?  the ultimate danger here is that , one day , working families are going to wake up and say , you have it all wrong .  the country belongs to all of us , not you .  if you do not want to admit that , it belongs only to us .  working families are the people who go out and defend the existence of this country in times of war .  they will determine whether we defeat terrorism or not .  working families are going to determine that we do not have domestic terrorism spreading in america because working families are going to save america by rising up to throw out people who insist on stamping on them and have contempt for them .  mr. speaker , in closing , i urge a `` no '' vote on all four of these bills today .  mr. speaker , on that i demand the yeas and nays .  madam speaker , i rise in opposition to h.r. 739 because it appears to be just another way for this administration to distract from the real priorities of our nation 's workers : fair wages , open labor negotiations , secure pensions , u.s. jobs over the outsourcing of our jobs and , of course , a safe working environment that protects workers from harm and allows their families peace of mind .  yet with this legislation , we put the company 's bottom line above the safety of american workers .  with the narrowing definition of willful violations , we make it easier for employers to avoid responsibility after disregarding a safety standard requirement .  this bill would allow a company to receive a filing extension no matter why the paperwork was lost , whether they lost track of it in the first place or if they even put it aside because of their very own negligence .  why should any worker be forced to suffer in unhealthy or unsafe working conditions or , worse , lose their life or be maimed for their life because of inefficiencies within a company 's system ?  that is why i support real workforce reform that strengthens worker protections and insists that employers face real consequences when their poor safety standards cause a wrongful death , no excuses , no added waivers , no way to help an employer miss their deadlines and then get away with it .  you can not put a price tag on life , madam speaker , and you can not put a price tag on serious injury .  we can all agree that every worker 's life is more precious than a profit .  that is why i encourage my colleagues to join me and join the gentleman from new york ( mr. owens )  in opposing h.r. 739 .  mr. speaker , i rise in opposition to h.r. 740 because workers deserve to know that their interests will be heard without biased judgment by the occupational safety and health review commission .  grieving families across america depend on osha to stand up for them and for their deceased and injured loved ones .  but this legislation will threaten one of the only hopes that families have for justice when a loved one is harmed at work .  by increasing the membership of the commission from three to five , the administration could actually play politics with the commission , filling it with antiworker safety appointees , making it more difficult to reach a quorum than now .  the very idea that it is simpler to get a three-member quorum than a two-member quorum makes no sense .  if you can not fill a quorum when you only have three , how are you going to fill it when you have five ?  since president bush took office , it has been really clear that he intends to use osha to protect employers rather than employees when addressing worker safety .  why then would we believe that he would appoint members to the commission that would steer the commission toward helping the employee rather than the employer ?  employees need to know that business interests are not the primary basis of the osha review commission .  the size of the osha review commission has no meaning in the face of employee health and safety , in the face of death and injury .  what does it matter to the worker the size of the business or how many members sit on a commission ?  death is death .  injury is injury .  that is what we should be talking about , protecting our workers .  mr. speaker , this legislation is not what workers need or want .  their grievances must be taken more seriously than these little fixes here and there in the osha review .  if you can not sit three members , why could you sit five ?  think about it .  that is why i urge my colleagues to oppose h.r. 740 .  mr. speaker , i rise in opposition to h.r. 742 because workers deserve to know their interests will be represented fairly by osha , not weighed by how much money it will cost to bring the claim forward .  we all have small businesses in our districts , and we all know that it saves money to provide for a safe workplace in the first place and preventing accidents .  workers and their families suffer due to poor safety at some workplaces .  they have enough angst because they ca n't count on their employers to provide protection .  experiencing further betrayal by their government when they seek justice is the last thing they need .  but , this bill threatens the lives of thousands of workers employed by small businesses because it forces osha to consider the costs of attorneys ' fees when deciding to take action .  putting this unique burden on osha may take away the only recourse employees have to stand up for their safety .  since bush took office , it has been clear that he intends to use osha to protect big business rather than worker safety .  first , he signed legislation overturning workplace safety rules to prevent ergonomic standards .  then he advocated budget cuts for job safety agencies , such as osha and niosh .  he went even further by suspending twenty-three important job safety regulations .  the list goes on and on .  this legislation is one more way to weaken osha .  if this passes it will be that much easier for businesses to avoid osha regulations .  if my colleagues on the other side of the aisle really wanted to help workers , they would increase penalties for employers that ignore safety regulations .  they would protect companys from dumping their pensions on to the taxpayers and raise minimum wage .  these actions would let our workers know that someone is worrying about the costs in their lives as well .  mr. speaker , i urge my colleagues to join me in opposing h.r. 742 , which is an unnecessary attack on worker protections .  mr. speaker , today there is a point of agreements and a strong point of disagreement .  there is a point of agreement that health care costs are rising too fast for too many people .  there is a point of agreement that the consequences of that price increase is a tremendous burden on small business and a high likelihood that more people will be uninsured .  i do not think there is a member of this body that does not favor finding an intelligent and effective way to reduce health care costs for small business so they can continue to insure the people they do insure and expand and insure more people in the future .  where we disagree is over whether this underlying bill is the right way to do it , and we emphatically believe that it is not .  there are four reasons to oppose this bill .  the first is that there is a better idea .  there is a better way to solve this problem , and the gentleman from wisconsin ( mr. kind )  will address that issue when our substitute is brought to the floor in a little while .  the second reason is that this bill will not result in a reduction of the number of uninsured .  to the contrary , it will result in an increase in the number of uninsured people , and here is how .  it is estimated by the experts in this field that 8 million people will be shifted from conventional health care policies and plans to association health plans .  these 8 million people will , in fact , probably have a lower premium than they do right now for a little while .  but when those 8 million people are shifted out of conventional health care plans and they will tend to be younger and healthier people , the people remaining in the conventional health care plans will have to bear more of the costs , and premiums will go up by an estimate of 23 percent .  when the premiums go up on the rest of those in the pool , fewer of them will be insured .  the experts estimate that while 8 million people will be shifted from regular plans to ahps , 9 million people approximately will lose their coverage altogether , and the results will be a net loss in the number of insured of 1 million people .  so supporting this bill will increase the number of uninsured , not decrease it ; and it will increase premiums by 23 percent .  the second reason to oppose this bill is that it fails to provide the protection to patients , providers and consumers that good insurance regulation provides .  there are simply no effective regulations that will keep an insurance company from going bankrupt and being unable to meet its obligations to its policy holders and pay its claims .  we have seen this happen before in multiemployer welfare associations .  we will be submitting at the appropriate time a list for the record of mewas that have failed .  this is the reason that the national governors association , that attorneys general , that commissioners of insurance both republican and democrat oppose this bill because the regulation that would protect patients and providers and consumers is not there .  the third reason that we should oppose this bill , the final reason , is that the coverage that people have fought for over the years , so that women have a minimum stay in the hospital after they have a c section , so that women have the right to an annual mammogram , so that people with diabetes have the right to insulin or diabetic care , so that people struggling with mental health problems or with substance abuse have the right to have those services covered , those protections which have been supported by republicans and democrats in state legislatures around this country are effectively repealed by the underlying bill , a judgment being made in washington that contravenes the good judgment of republicans and democrats around the country .  this bill should be opposed .  there is a better way that the gentleman from wisconsin ( mr. kind )  will be putting forward with my assistance .  this is a bill that will increase the number of uninsured and increase health insurance premiums for small businesses .  this is a bill that will leave patients and providers and consumers unprotected if and when insurance companies go bankrupt .  finally , this is a bill that effectively repeals protections for breast cancer screening , colon cancer screening , diabetes care , substance abuse care , and mental health care .  it is a bill that should be defeated .  mr. speaker , i reserve the balance of my time .  mr. speaker , among those who know the difference between a cadillac and a lemon are the insurance commissioners of our states who oppose this bill .  mr. speaker , i yield myself the balance of my time .  mr. speaker , the argument for this bill rests upon a false choice that i believe would have catastrophic consequences for many americans .  we are told by proponents of the bill that if we are willing to yield the guarantees that they presently enjoy under the law that guarantee them a mammogram , guarantee them care for diabetic illness , guarantee them other rights that they fought and won for , if we make that trade-off , we will get more people health insurance .  if that were true , this would be a difficult choice , but it is not true .  the net impact of this bill will be to increase the number of uninsured people by nearly 1 million people because the increases in premiums for small business that will occur in businesses that stay in conventional plans will chase more people out of these plans .  the experts estimate that these increases will be in excess of 20 percent .  so this is a false choice .  this bill does not say that if we yield these benefits that people cherish , more people will be insured .  the opposite is true .  if we were to make the mistake of yielding these cherished benefits , more people would lose their coverage than would gain it .  this is a choice not worth making , and it is why the national governors association opposes the bill , republicans and democrats .  and it is why the attorneys general oppose the bill , republicans and democrats .  and it is why commissioners of insurance , republicans and democrats , oppose the bill .  i urge our colleagues on both sides of the aisle to protect the benefits that our constituents earned and deserve and to prevent the increase in the number of uninsured and the increase in health insurance benefit premiums and vote `` no '' on this bill .  mr. speaker , i thank my friend , the gentleman from wisconsin ( mr. kind )  , for yielding me the time .  i think the best way to understand the difference between the plan that the gentleman from wisconsin ( mr. kind )  and i are putting forward and the majority plan is to look at it from the point of view of one of the small business people that we keep hearing referred to over and over again here today .  my friend , the gentleman from wisconsin ( mr. obey )  , often refers to speeches on the floor as posing for holy pictures , and i think that is what is going on here today , where everyone is embracing the small businessman or small businesswoman and saying how much we love them and care about them , and i am sure everyone does .  but i think what matters is the impact of these various proposals , what the proposals would have on the small business person .  in my state the cost of insuring a family is about $ 14 , 000 a year .  so let us take a small business person that has 10 employees and is looking at a situation where he or she would have to spend $ 140 , 000 to insure each of those employees and their families if the employer was going to bear the whole cost .  that is a huge amount of money , but is probably well beyond the ability of that employer to pay for .  under the majority 's bill , if we give the majority every benefit of the doubt , if we assume that the majority 's bill will work exactly as they say that it will , the most optimistic forecast is the majority 's bill will save 13 percent in premiums for that employer .  and let us round it up a little bit and give them the benefit of the doubt further and say it will save $ 2 , 000 per employee off that $ 14 , 000 .  so what would happen ?  we would save $ 20 , 000 , and the employer would be looking at spending $ 120 , 000 to insure the families instead of $ 140 , 000 .  that is not going to do it .  that is still far more than the person running a machine shop or a small retail store or landscaping business or a delicatessen is ever going to be able to afford .  this just is not going to happen .  it is not going to happen .  our proposal is very different .  it says that in a case of a small business like the one i am hypothesizing here , where you have about 10 employees , and where those employees make less than 200 percent of the poverty level , which in my state for a family of four would be about $ 40 , 000 , so just about anybody making less than $ 20 an hour or so would be eligible for this kind of subsidy , that is most people .  that is most people .  under our plan that employer , if the employer chose to do this , my friend a minute ago said that the employers were mandated to do this , that is not so .  no one is required to insure their employees under this plan , but if the employer chooses to insure his or her employees , what would happen is they would get a credit of $ 7 , 000 per employee toward the cost of this health insurance , a 50 percent credit .  so now , my friend , the gentleman from ohio ( mr. boehner )  , the chairman of the full committee , said , my goodness , the government will be subsidizing small employers if we do this .  it is big government .  well , government already subsidizes health care for large employers , because they permit the large employers to deduct every premium dollar .  and that employer is paying at the 36 or 37 percent corporate tax rate , which most of them do .  that constitutes a 36 or 37 percent subsidy .  so general motors is getting a nearly 40 percent subsidy , but the person running the delicatessen or the machine shop is not .  this evens the playing field .  now , how do we pay for this ?  now , the chairman knows that under the rules of the house that it would not be appropriate or germane for us to identify the source of paying for this , because it would take it outside of the committee 's jurisdiction .  there are different views as to how we could pay for this .  i speak only for myself when i say this , but i would note for the record that the cost of tax breaks to companies that outsource their jobs outside of the united states is $ 100 billion over the next 10 years .  so if that machine shop , if its competitor takes all of the jobs and moves them to malaysia or mexico , gets a tax break for doing that , which i think is a foolish policy , if we were to repeal that tax break for companies that are outsourcing their jobs out of this country , that would go a long way toward paying for the plan that we are talking about .  that to me is a pretty good trade-off .  companies that are sending their jobs overseas would lose a tax break ; companies here in america would gain health insurance .  vote yes on the kind-andrews substitute .  mr. speaker , on that i demand the yeas and nays .  mr. speaker , i rise in opposition of h.r. 525 and the association health plans it creates .  there are 44 million americans who are uninsured in this country and this bill will not even affect 1 percent of them .  not 1 percent .  cbo found that only 360 , 000 uninsured americans would join ahps .  this bill in fact hurts those who enroll in the plans and will even cause healthcare costs to go up for many other americans .  there has to be a better way to help 44 million uninsured americans .  ahps will not be accountable to state health regulations .  this will leave consumers who enroll in these plans without protection or a right to appeal if their cancer or diabetes treatment or medicines are denied .  we can not let ahps become bargain basement plans that enroll only the healthiest americans .  what will happen to our sick , elderly and those with severe health conditions ?  twenty million americans will face higher healthcare costs .  twenty million .  health insurers will give breaks to the ahps and charge other consumers more .  studies show that these higher healthcare costs could cause up to 10 , 000 americans to become insured .  there is a better way to help small businesses and the uninsured .  h.r. 525 will not help small businesses or their employees .  this is a shortsighted plan that does nothing to cover the 44 million uninsured americans who can not afford to get sick .  mr. speaker , it is unfortunate that while we are in the midst of a healthcare crisis for the uninsured , for small businesses , and for practitioners , congress is recycling the same flawed legislation .  the proposal would allow association health plans to bypass the state solvency framework requirements , leaving the consumers at a significant risk .  the reason that over 1 , 350 business , labor , and community organizations oppose h.r. 525 -- including organizations such as the national governors association , 41 attorneys general , the national association of insurance commissioners , blue cross/blue shield , national small business united and 69 local chambers of commerce -- is because it not only misses the point , it will make things worse .  the bill would undermine our efforts to provide essential services to everyone by providing incentives to insure only the healthiest and wealthiest , leaving the vast majority of over 1/2 million uninsured oregonians and 45 million uninsured americans behind .  even worse , the adverse selection process will mean that the insurance pool will be narrower and sicker , resulting in more expensive insurance for most families .  furthermore , the congressional budget office estimates that 8 million individuals who currently have health coverage will be switched to a lower benefit plan .  consumers may be denied the proper screening , procedures and treatment they deserve .  these are critical issues for taxpayers and businesses alike .  i will continue to work with the healthcare and business community to produce the type of process , discussion and legislation americans critically deserve .  mr. speaker , i oppose the underlying bill for many reasons .  fundamentally , it violates the concept of federalism that is embodied in our constitution , respect for our states , and the ability of our states to be able to regulate public safety issues and health issues for the people of our states .  this legislation would preempt the ability of my state and your state to protect the rights of our own citizens through regulation .  that is wrong .  that is the wrong usurpation of power by the federal government .  this underlying legislation would adversely affect the people of maryland , and let me tell you why .  our legislature has passed small market reform .  people who work for companies that are between two and 50 employees have the opportunity to purchase insurance , affordable health insurance in maryland as a result of our small market reform .  the passage of this legislation will mean the end of the small market reform and the opportunity to purchase insurance by small employers in my state .  that is wrong .  we are going to be moving in the wrong direction with making affordable health insurance available for the people of this nation .  mr. speaker , i want you to understand the insurance commissioner of maryland is a republican .  the governor of maryland , who opposes this bill , is a republican .  this should not be a partisan issue .  this should be a matter about the appropriate use of the federal authority and it is being used wrong here .  i congratulate the gentleman from wisconsin ( mr. kind )  for his substitute which is sensitive to the rights of our states .  i hope members will support the substitute and reject the underlying bill .  mr. speaker , as a member who is dedicated to protecting the rights of americans who have health insurance and to ensuring that opportunities to secure affordable health insurance can be expanded , i rise in opposition to h.r. 525 .  since coming to congress , i have heard frequently from individuals who work in small business .  they have spoken to me about the difficulties that result from a lack of health insurance coverage , skyrocketing premiums , and reductions in benefits .  i remain committed to developing solutions that will alleviate the hardships faced by many maryland families and small businesses .  however , the association health plan ( ahp ) legislation we are considering on the house floor today is not a viable solution .  h.r. 525 would exempt ahps from state laws and state regulatory oversight .  through this special exemption , ahps would be able to severely undermine the goal of greater health care access and affordability for maryland residents .  although some supporters of this legislation claim it will benefit small employers , the reality is that h.r. 525 will only hurt the small business community .  h.r. 525 would leave the maryland insurance commissioner powerless to protect our citizens .  under this misguided bill , unregulated out-of-state ahps could operate in maryland without being required to comply with health care safeguards enacted by our state legislature , such as : appropriate access to emergency care .  the right to independent appeal of denied claims , fair insurance premiums for small groups , consumer marketing protections , prevention of health plan failures due to insolvency .  under this legislation , my constituents would not only lose their ability to demand an independent review of denied claims , but they would lose guaranteed access to important benefits such as emergency medical treatment and mammography screenings .  workers who purchase association health plan coverage -- believing that they are getting comprehensive insurance -- may very well find that they would still have to shoulder the costs of these essential services .  not only would this bill be harmful to potential subscribers , it would destroy the small group market reforms already in place in maryland .  twelve years ago , my home state of maryland took a major step toward helping small businesses afford health insurance for their workers .  our reforms guarantee the availability of reasonably priced , comprehensive health insurance for all small employers .  specifically , maryland requires all health insurers to sell a comprehensive standard benefit package designed by an independent commission to all employers with between 2 and 50 employees .  the plan must have benefits that are actuarially equivalent to those required to be offered by federally qualified hmos , and the average cost can not exceed 12 percent of maryland 's average annual wage .  insurers have the option of offering additional benefits , but they must due to these reforms , more maryland small businesses offer health care coverage to their employees than in any surrounding states or in the nation as a whole .  maryland 's system is one in which healthy subscribers subsidize those who are less healthy .  these reforms work because insurers are not allowed to `` cherry pick '' the businesses that have the healthiest workers .  association health plans have been outlawed in our state .  the association health plan legislation before us would undermine our system by using the lure of lower premiums to attract firms whose workers have fewer health problems , firms whose employees might be willing to forgo some of the consumer protections offered under maryland law .  businesses with older , sicker employees would remain in the state system , driving up premiums .  h.r. 525 would , in effect , lead to the collapse of maryland 's system .  this bill would be devastating on a national level , as well .  the non-partisan congressional budget office found that premiums would increase for 20 million employees and their dependents who are covered through small firms , and that 100 , 000 of the sickest workers would lose coverage altogether if this ahp legislation were enacted .  passage of this legislation would be a disservice to every worker , every family , and every small business in maryland .  h.r. 525 fails to provide meaningful help for the uninsured , denies access to affordable health care for older , less healthy groups , and undermines the crucial consumer protections that our general assembly has enacted .  for these reasons , i urge my colleagues to vote against this bill .  mr. speaker , the following is a letter from our insurance commissioner who is opposed to h.r. 525 : maryland insurance administration , baltimore , md , april 19 , 2005 .  dear congressman cardin : as commissioner of the maryland insurance administration i am writing to express my strong opposition to federal legislation that would create association health plans , ahps .  i understand such legislation , h.r. 525 , has been passed , again , by the house education and the workforce committee and may soon come to the floor of the house for a vote .  h.r. 525 would allow ahps to form and operate in maryland outside the authority of my office and beyond the reach of proven state consumer safeguards and solvency laws .  if enacted into law , this could do irreparable harm to our small group market and strip our citizens of critical protections .  altough i share the sponsor 's concern for the growing number of small business employees who can not afford adequate coverage , the fact is this legislation would do little , if anything to address this problem .  h.r. 525 ignores the root cause of the current crisis -- skyrocketing healthcare spending .  unless spending is brought under control no attempts to increase competition or enhance options for small business will truly make insurance affordable and , thus , promote coverage .  even more troubling is the harm the legislation would do to consumers , h.r. 525 would : ( 1 ) permit risk selection thereby creating opportunities for `` cherry-picking '' among healthier groups ; ( 2 ) allow inadequate capital standards and solvency requirements , both of which are inferior to existing state standards ; ( 3 ) eliminate proven state consumer protection laws , including those designed to allow consumer appeals of adverse plan decisions and those aimed at preventing and fighting fraud ; and i remain committed to improving access to affordable insurance for small business owners and workers in maryland .  together , we can find solutions that will be effective and not lead to greater problems in the future .  h.r. 515 is clearly not the answer and i urge you to oppose it .  sincerely , al redmer , jr. , mr. speaker , i think the rules committee has made a terrible mistake here , and not the usual rules committee sort of mistake , because they have actually allowed to come to the floor a substitute that is so clearly superior to the ahp bill it is amazing .  now , let my friends on the other side understand , i am not against ahps .  i am an original cosponsor of the gentleman from texas ( mr. johnson 's ) legislation .  ahps would be an improvement over current market conditions , which are appalling .  but this plan put forward by the gentleman from wisconsin ( mr. kind )  and the gentleman from new jersey ( mr. andrews )  is better than ahps , and let me describe some of the ways .  first , the gentleman from louisiana ( mr. boustany )  mentioned choice earlier .  under the ahp approach , the average small business might be able to offer their employees one or two insurance plans , and that employee of the small business would have no idea whether their doctor was going to be a apart of one of those plans .  but under the federal employee approach , such as the one that we enjoy in this house of representatives , they could have 10 or 20 or more plans to choose from , and the likelihood that their physician , their caregiver , would be part of one or more of those plans increases substantially .  so when you are talking about unleashing the free market to work for the individual , the federal employee health benefits-type plan , and this would not infringe on federal employees ' benefits , but it would set up a parallel organization that small businesses could benefit from , the opportunities for the small businesses of america are magnificent under this approach .  another key aspect of this is the substitute approach is more likely to work .  ahps are largely a thought experiment .  they have never really worked anywhere .  but the federal employee health benefit system has worked well for decades , 30 or 40 years of a magnificent track record of experience .  it has got bipartisan support .  men and women of goodwill on both sides of the aisle know that this sort of approach works ; it lowers the sales load , it increases the risk pool to the maximum size which you need for lower group rates .  it really is the fairest and best way to approach this nagging small business problem that we have had .  it is also going to be more affordable , because while it lowers the sales load and increases the size of the risk pool , it is fairer to all industries .  there are probably going to be a lot of insurance companies that want to offer insurance to software companies , because those employees tend to be young and healthy .  how many are going to be eager to insure older rust belt industries ?  the tax credit approach that my friend has mentioned has had to be adjusted for purposes of this substitute , but we need to acknowledge , as my friend from new jersey ( mr. andrews )  mentioned , health care is already seriously subsidized in this country .  all we are trying to do is make that subsidy fairer .  i think also the substitute approach would make the system higher quality .  first of all , under ahps , there would be minimal solvency requirements .  by completely overturning all state regulation , as ahps would do , that is a truly radical approach , and while my friends on the other side may be radicals in this regard , i think they are going further than they realize .  these insurance plans need to be thoroughly solvent .  you need to have adequate capital requirements so that you know the insurance is going to be there when you need it .  i think you would have better benefits under this plan , too , because you would have more proven traditional insurance policies that i think more folks who work for small businesses are accustomed to .  let me admit , mr. speaker , in closing , our approach is less famous .  why ?  because we do not have every pac and trade association in washington , d.c .  favoring this because they stand to personally benefit from promoting ahps to their members .  they are desperate for non-dues revenue for those associations .  for any tourist who comes to washington , if you do not think these pacs and trade associations are rich enough , come visit again .  you will see skyscrapers full of these folks all over town , and they would love to make money as insurance salesmen to all the small businesses in america .  that is not doing justice for our folks back home .  as i say , ahps are an improvement , but they are not as good as the kind-andrews approach .  please vote for kind-andrews .  mr. speaker , i rise today to urge a `` no '' vote on h.r. 525 and a `` yes '' vote on the kind-andrews substitute .  this debate is , frankly , misdirected .  the question is not who recognizes that there is a health care crisis in this country and who does not .  this is not a contest to see who among us truly understands that small businesses are finding themselves in an increasingly difficult predicament when it comes to providing health care insurance for their employees .  we all care about this issue , and we all have constituents who need help affording health care insurance .  small businesses , which do face unique challenges across the board compared to large corporations , are the backbone of our economy ; and we should be doing more to help them .  and providing better and more health care coverage is one of the biggest problems they face today .  so i ask our friends on the other side of the aisle , why do we have before us a bill that does nothing to really address the problem for small businesses and very well may end up hurting the people who we say we are trying to help ?  there is a reason why the national governors association and 41 attorneys general are against this bill .  there is a reason why numerous advocacy associations , consumer groups , and others oppose this misguided legislation .  this bill has been hailed as the answer to covering many of the 45 million americans who are currently uninsured ; but in truth , a very small percentage of the population would be helped in any way .  this is because association health plans would help a relatively small number of the youngest and healthiest among us who will gain access to cheap minimalist plans .  but that would come at the expense of the vast majority of workers whose premiums would actually increase .  it would also make it nearly impossible for those with previous health challenges or chronic diseases to obtain any coverage at all .  let me give an example .  i am the cochair of the bipartisan diabetes caucus in congress .  forty-six states have mandated that insurance plans must cover diabetic supplies ?  why ?  one little vial of strips , test strips costs $ 50 , and insurance companies simply were not giving that benefit in the past .  that is why 46 of the 50 states said , you have to pay for this .  now , if diabetics test their blood , long-term complications like heart disease , kidney failure , end-stage renal disease , all of those are eliminated ; but they have to have insurance coverage for these supplies .  this legislation wipes out that requirement .  it says , you do not have to pay for that ; you do not have to follow that state law .  that is not only wrong for those beneficiaries who are diabetic ; it is shortsighted in the long run for the cost of our health care system .  we need to address the real access and affordability issues that affect employees of small businesses , and the only way we can do that is by passing the kind-andrews substitute .  this substitute will give small employers the ability to provide the same access to health benefits as federal employees .  it will also allow states to establish small employer health pools .  it would also minimize adverse selection and use state-licensed insurers without preempting state laws .  sounds like a good substitute to me .  if we pass the substitute , we can make a true impact on the status of millions of uninsured workers across this country ; and for that reason , i urge a `` no '' vote on h.r. 525 and a `` yes '' vote on the substitute .  mr. speaker , the so-called small business health fairness act is anything but fair .  congress should not be in the business of promoting the reduction of healthcare benefits and coverage and that is exactly what this bill does .  proponents of h.r. 525 argue that health insurance will be cheaper under this bill , but the devil is in the details .  healthy people would enjoy low premiums under association health plans because the plans are exempt from state consumer protections and minimum quality requirements , and therefore meaningful coverage .  without consumer safeguards , association health plans would be largely unregulated and unlikely to cover such benefits as mammography screening , cervical cancer screening , well-child visits , mental health services and diabetic supplies .  while this might appeal to healthy people , it will be devastating to those who actually need medical care .  those who are sicker would remain in non-association health plans and would have to pay higher premiums to compensate for those individuals who are siphoned off into the association health plans .  it is also troublesome that this legislation exempts association health plans from state solvency standards .  many states have strict solvency laws that protect workers from insurance fraud and abuse .  any meaningful insurance company should have to adhere to adequate standards of protection .  we should reject this anti-consumer proposal in favor of the kind/andrews substitute .  this measure would create a small employer health benefits plan , sehb , similar to the federal employee health benefit plan and would offer coverage to all small businesses with fewer than 100 workers .  significantly , this legislation works with existing state laws and does not preempt state mandates regarding health care coverage .  this substitute very clearly commits federal funds to aid small businesses in offering insurance to employees .  true health insurance coverage offers meaningful benefits with appropriate solvency safeguards .  our constituents deserve no less .  i urge my colleagues to reject h.r. 525 and pass the kind/andrews substitute today .  mr. speaker , today member after member has been talking about the 45 million americans who lack health insurance .  at the origin of our problem , we are the only major country where your health care coverage depends on who you work for .  but that is not to be debated today .  we are talking about the small businesses in new jersey and elsewhere around the country that face the high cost of health insurance .  we all hear about it from our small businesses and their employees .  unfortunately , what has been brought to the floor here is a bill that creates more problems than it solves .  the concept of companies working together to control costs has worked in some states , and it is certainly something i support .  however , i can not support allowing association health plans to achieve cost savings by offering inferior coverage .  allowing ahps to circumvent existing state laws , for example , with regard to mental health coverage or contraceptive equity or mammograms or prostate screening or countless other necessary benefits is not an acceptable means to cut premiums .  supporters of this legislation claim that millions of small businesses and their employees will be eligible for this new insurance option .  however , the congressional budget office estimates that only 600 , 000 of those eligible are currently uninsured , a small fraction of this huge population .  and h.r. 525 would allow ahps to offer artificially lower costs by offering cheaper premiums to lower-risk populations , a policy that will lead to older and sicker people paying higher premiums .  the cbo found that more than 20 million workers and their dependents would see their premiums increase due to ahps cherry-picking .  states require that qualified health plans cover certain basic items .  states say that anything that is worthy of the name health plan must cover certain things .  well , under this bill i could create a health plan that covers nothing but ingrown toenail surgery .  it would be the cheapest plan out there , but it would not help employees very much .  i urge my colleagues to vote against h.r. 525 and to support the andrews-kind substitute .  their legislation would address the real needs of small employers .  it would establish a small employer health benefits plan that would grant small business employees the same benefits as federal employees receive .  it provides prorated premium assistance for companies of varying sizes and employees of varying income .  it would be much preferable to h.r. 525 .  mr. speaker , i rise today in strong opposition to the small business health fairness act , h.r. 525 .  this bill would not only fail to expand health coverage for the uninsured , but would actually reduce health care benefits and coverage for 8 million individuals who would be switched to lower benefit ahp health plans .  only 1 percent -- 600 , 000 people -- of the 45 million uninsured americans would be provided new coverage by ahps .  instead of providing broader access to comprehensive health insurance for the millions of uninsured americans , h.r. 525 will undermine access to quality , affordable health insurance and may actually increase the ranks of the uninsured .  under current law , the majority of health insurance plans are regulated at the state level .  states have enacted a number of protections to ensure the fairness of health insurance coverage for patients .  most states now require insurers to allow direct access to emergency services , independent external appeal of health care claims denials , and access to an adequate range of health professionals .  ahps would be exempt from these requirements , leaving those with ahp coverage with inadequate protection .  insurers naturally have incentives to select the healthiest individuals or groups that are seeking coverage .  state regulations counter this incentive by mandating that certain benefits be covered , and by limiting and defining how policies are to be priced .  by exempting ahps from these state regulations , ahps would offer less-generous policies that would be attractive to healthier individuals and groups .  by permitting ahps to offer coverage to specific types of employers , the bill allows them to hand pick populations that are better risks and therefore less costly to insure .  under h.r. 525 , ahps would offer different premiums to each member employer , charging lower rates for lower risk persons and charging much higher rates for higher risk persons .  the only restriction on premiums is that differences could not be based on health status .  this provision is essentially meaningless because it permits ahps to accomplish the same goal by varying premiums based on age , sex , race , national origin , or any other factor in the employers ' workforce , including claims experience .  as a nation , we have recognized and are committed to eliminating health disparities based on race , ethnicity , and national origin .  why then would we create laws that perpetuate and encourage further health disparities ?  small businesses comprise nearly one-third of the private sector workforce , and are much less likely than large firms to provide health coverage for their employees .  although this is a serious concern , ahps are not the answer .  the kind/andrews substitute offers provisions that would address the real health insurance needs of small employers .  it would provide small employers the same access to health benefits as federal employees by establishing a small employer health benefits plan , sehb , similar to the federal employees health benefits plan .  it offers coverage to all small employers and their employees to apply for coverage under sehb .  those working less than full-time would be eligible for pro rata coverage .  it would also minimize adverse selection , use state-licenses insurers without preempting state laws , provide a minimum benefit package similar to federal employees , and provide premium assistance to make employee and employer premiums affordable .  i urge my colleagues to support the kind/andrews substitute and oppose the republican leadership 's flawed approach to ahps .  mr. speaker , i take this time for the purpose of inquiring of the majority leader the schedule for the week to come .  mr. speaker , i thank the gentleman for that information .  realizing that next week is a busy week and there are a number of very important items on the agenda , how likely , mr. leader , do you think it is that we will be in on friday ?  mr. speaker , reclaiming my time , thank you for that information , mr. leader .  mr. leader , obviously next week i suppose the most controversial and most focused-upon piece of legislation will be the central american free trade agreement .  this week , of course , the patriot act , which we thought was going to start thursday and go through today , in fact was accelerated and nasa was taken today , clearly to ensure full consideration of the patriot act .  might it be possible with some assurance to let the members know when the cafta bill will be on the floor , in effect adopting a similar procedure ?  mr. speaker , i thank the leader for that response .  i understand the problem of pinning down now exact times .  would it be fair , however , mr. leader , to say that it would not be considered on the last day we are here , on friday , or not , so that we could make sure that members knew and had some degree of confidence , because it is such an important piece of legislation , that it would not be considered on the last day we are here ?  mr. speaker , reclaiming my time , the postal accountability bill , you seem to indicate that that might be considered earlier in the week rather than later .  is that accurate ?  mr. speaker , i thank the leader .  reclaiming my time , you mentioned appropriations bills .  are we likely to have motions to go to conference on appropriations bills next week ; and if so , can you anticipate what bills that might be ?  those conferences would be on the floor , is that what the gentleman is saying , possibly ?  in terms of motions to go to conference , do you anticipate motions to go to conference on any appropriations bills next week ?  i appreciate that .  on the bill of the gentleman from arizona ( mr. shadegg )  , i think it is h.r. 2355 , dealing with the insurance issues , there is a lot of interest on our side of the aisle .  will that bill be considered ?  did you list that as one of the health bills that would be considered ?  reclaiming my time , mr. leader , i take it that in light of the fact you have not mentioned it , at this point in time it is not on the schedule .  but there is a lot of discussion on this side of the aisle about that bill .  do you think it would be possible that it might be added to the calendar ?  because there is so much interest in that bill on our side , mr. leader , would it be fair to say that that decision would be made prior to the close of business on monday so that we would have some notice of that in time to fairly consider it ?  mr. speaker , reclaiming my time , we would appreciate that .  the other bills that i would like to talk about , the highway bill conference report the gentleman indicated as a possibility , can the gentleman inform us of the status of that conference and where we are on this bill ?  mr. speaker , reclaiming my time , i presume , am i correct , that the gentleman 's effort would be to try to pass it prior to the expiration of the last temporary extension , or would the gentleman anticipate another , which i guess would be the tenth or the eleventh extension ; or does the gentleman think he can perhaps get it through prior to wednesday night ?  mr. speaker , reclaiming my time , i thank the leader for his comments and observations .  we are certainly hopeful on our side , and i know the gentleman is on his side , that we get this bill through .  it is probably as significant a jobs creation bill as we will pass in this congress , and it has been delayed for a very long period of time .  i know the gentleman has been frustrated by it , and we have been frustrated by it , and hopefully , we can get that done by next week .  the energy bill conference report , can the gentleman tell us where that stands ?  mr. speaker , reclaiming my time , in light of the fact , mr. leader , i will simply observe that if we get all of those things moving we are going to have a lot of work to do next week , and i presume our members ought to be prepared for long days and , clearly , if we get all of that done , it will be friday late before we get out of here .  in light of the fact we will not have a colloquy next week because we will be going on recess for the summer work period , can the gentleman tell us what he anticipates might be on the agenda when we come back on september 6 , what might be on the agenda early in the september weeks ?  clearly , appropriations bills conference reports , to the extent they are done , will be on the calendar , but other than that , can the gentleman enlighten us as to what your thoughts are ?  mr. speaker , reclaiming my time , i thank the gentleman for that information .  lastly , there are two pieces of legislation , major pieces of legislation that the gentleman did not mention but have been talked about , and that is , of course , the social security legislation and the campaign finance legislation , one or the other bill , or both .  can the gentleman give me his thoughts on where they stand and when they might come on the agenda if , in fact , they will be coming on the agenda ?  mr. speaker , i thank the leader for all of the information .  mr. speaker , i rise today in support of h.r. 525 .  this bill , introduced by the employer-employee relations subcommittee chairman sam johnson , committee chairman john boehner , small business committee ranking member nydia velazquez and albert wynn , would allow small businesses to join together through association health plans , ahps , to purchase health insurance for their workers at a lower cost .  the measure would increase small businesses ' bargaining power with health care providers , give them freedom from costly state-mandated benefit packages , and lower their overhead costs by as much as 30 percent .  this is a benefit that many large corporations like gm and ford already enjoy because of their larger economies of scale .  furthermore , this bill expressly prohibits discrimination by requiring that all employers who are association members are eligible for participation , all geographically available coverage options are made available upon request to eligible employers , and eligible individuals can not be excluded from enrolling because of health status .  premium contribution rates for any particular small employer can not be based on the health status or claims experience of plan participants or beneficiaries or on the type of business or industry in which the employer is engaged .  the measure makes clear that ahps must comply with the health insurance portability and accountability act , hipaa , which prohibits group health plans from excluding high-risk individuals with high claims experience .  thus , it will not be possible for ahps to `` cherry pick '' because sick or high risk-groups or individuals can not be denied coverage .  the bill prohibits ahps from charging higher rates for sicker individuals or groups within the plan , except to the extent already allowed under the relevant state rating law .  while i support all of these positive aspects of the bill , i do have concerns with other areas .  due to this fact , i also stand today to support the kind/andrews substitute .  this substitute would strengthen the larger goal of the legislation which is to lower health care cost for workers .  the substitute does this by providing small employers the same access to health benefits as federal employees .  under the substitute , the department of labor will establish a small employer health benefits plan , sehb , similar to the federal employees health benefits plan , fehb .  the states also may establish state small employer health pools .  in addition , the substitute offers coverage to all small employers and their employees .  in essence , all employers with fewer than 100 employees during the previous calendar year shall be eligible to apply for coverage under sehb .  employers must offer coverage to all employees who have completed 3 months of service .  employees working less than full-time are eligible for pro rata coverage .  furthermore , the substitute also minimizes adverse selection .  this is done by requiring the secretary to establish an initial open enrollment period and thereafter an annual enrollment period .  one of the most important things achieved by the substitute is the fact that is uses state-licensed insurers without preempting state laws .  it also provides a minimum benefit package similar to federal employees , i.e. , all participating insurers must offer benefits similar to the benefits offered under the four largest fehb health plans .  as i close , i would hope that the differences i have mentioned are reconciled as this bill moves to conference .  mr. speaker , i thank the gentleman for yielding me time .  as we all know , we are in a health care crisis and many propose many solutions .  but let us just find out the simple facts .  facts are , insurance ratings are really dependent on the notion that some people are higher risk than others .  those are the people that insurance companies love to insure .  they love to insure them because if they have low risk , every dollar that they pay in terms of premium is another dollar down on their bottom line of profit .  however , if you are unfortunate enough to be born with a congenital defect in your organs , if you are unfortunate to be run over by a car , if you are struck by some ailment that is out of any control that you have whatsoever , under the insurance system you are known as a risk .  simply growing old titles you as a risk .  do you think an insurance company wants to cover you ?  of course they do not .  this is a zero sum game .  if some get insurance , others get zero .  but the fact of the matter is we all pay .  the notion that some people are going to get away from paying , meaning some small businesses are going to get away from paying , is just hogwash .  the fact of the matter is , we all know that when we pay our premiums , we are paying for someone who is uninsured .  we are paying for someone who is underinsured .  the way out of this problem is not to escape giving people health insurance , which this legislation does .  of course it is going to be cheaper if you do not pay for care .  that should not be a surprise to any of us .  that is pretty obvious .  if you want to get lower insurance costs , let us just cut out treatment for cancer .  that will reduce insurance costs .  let us just cut out treatment for mental health .  that is just what this act does .  it says `` no state mandates '' which means all the provisions , for example , for pregnant women to be able to have at least 72 hours after giving birth , all those provisions that states have put in for consumer protection , are no longer there under this legislation because this obviates all those state requirements that the people want in their insurance coverage .  by joining the insurance pool of federal employees , we bring everyone under a community rating , which means that we all pay our share , irrespective of whether someone is healthy and young versus old and sick .  all of us should be paying our fair share unless you want to escape paying for the notion that there but for the grace of god go you .  the fact of the matter is there but for the grace of god go you , someone else , and i. all of us have an obligation to those who have needs that need that health insurance .  why ?  because it could be any one of us that is the person that is in great need .  and i do not think any one of us would be denied health care coverage simply because as a human being we have greater health care needs .  and that is why i believe people ought to support the kind substitute .  we ought to support people 's access to the same coverage all of us as federal members of congress receive .  thank you to my good friends , mr. kind  and mr. andrews , for yielding me this time to speak in support of this substitute , the small employer health benefits program , which will provide a real solution for many of the forty-five million americans without health insurance .  mr. speaker , our health care system is broken .  to live in a country as great and as wealthy as ours , and to have millions of hard working , employed americans who can not afford quality health insurance is inexcusable .  my friends from across the aisle would like the american people to believe that association health plans are the only available option to relieve the burden of increased health care costs on small business owners .  however , the fact remains that association health plans not only ignore the unique needs of small businesses , but will actually undermine our insurance system by allowing healthy individuals to opt out .  we should n't be making policy only for the fortunate .  we should be making policy for everybody .  the proposed substitute , the small employers health benefits program , would provide the same access to health benefits as the federal employees health benefits program , fehbp .  if we are not ready to provide an overall solution to the nation 's health care crisis , then why do n't we at least extend small businesses the courtesy of providing a plan that meets the same requirements that members of congress and their families currently enjoy .  my colleagues on the other side of the aisle are right about one thing , small business owners are facing a crisis .  now let 's provide them with a solution .  mr. speaker , i want to commend my friend and colleague , the gentleman from new jersey ( mr. andrews )  , for the leadership he has shown on this issue .  here we are again , mr. speaker .  year after year after year it seems we continue to rise in this chamber to debate the same issue .  one of the reasons we have to do this year after year is because bad policy is tough to sell , and especially tough to sell in the senate right now , which has refused to take this up and move it forward because it has been bad policy .  the chairman of the full committee , the gentleman from ohio ( mr. boehner )  , had a chart showing us a 93 percent approval of ahps .  that is not surprising , mr. speaker .  there is such a craving throughout america for any type of legislative proposal that would bring price relief to the rising cost of health care , that i am afraid people will chase any proposal and even jump off a cliff without looking where they are going to land .  that is why , mr. speaker , especially under these conditions , it is more incumbent upon us here in this chamber to be extra careful in regard to the policy proposals that we are proposing so we do not violate the hippocratic oath , and that is : first do no harm to the current health care system .  there is plenty of places where this legislation that is being offered today would do substantial harm .  we have had studies outside and inside this body that have come back explaining the true deficiencies of this legislation , but none probably summarize it better than the national small business association that recently sent us a letter expressing their concerns .  now , this is an organization of some of the largest chambers of commerce and some of the biggest local and national organizations throughout the country , all of which see this ahp proposal for what it really is : an empty promise .  mr. speaker , i quote from this letter from the national small business association in which they state , `` the biggest loser from the passage of ahps would be small businesses .  ahps are not an answer to rising health care costs and would significantly worsen the state of health care for all businesses .  more and more small businesses are realizing that despite the bumper sticker pitch in its favor , ahps are , simply put , bad public policy. '' they go on to cite the mercer study , saying that `` premiums for those outside the ahp market would increase an additional 23 percent , and an additional 1 million people would become uninsured as this policy plays out. '' they go on to state that `` the minimal price savings realized by some businesses through ahps would come from attracting healthier participants and depleting benefits that are currently required by states .  ahps could create plans that manipulate benefits and are extremely unattractive to sicker , less healthy participants .  `` furthermore , the cbo found most of the enrollment in ahps would come from businesses switching coverage .  only 1 in 14 would be newly insured .  ahps do nothing to solve the problem in rising health care costs to small businesses and their employees. '' and they conclude by saying , `` they simply shift the cost from the overall market to a more concentrated group of people .  this is hardly a long-term solution. '' there is a better proposal , one that we will talk about in more detail when our substitute is offered .  there is a way for us , i believe , to come together in a bipartisan fashion to address one of the most pressing issues of the day , and that is affordability and access to quality health care .  businesses large and small , family farmers , individual employees are all suffering alike , and that is why it is important for us to come together and do something meaningful to relieve the health care pressures in this economy .  mr. speaker , i yield myself 5 minutes .  mr. speaker , this morning we fortunately witnessed the successful take-off of the latest space shuttle mission into space , and i , and i know all my colleagues , our thoughts and prayers go with that crew and their families .  we wish them a successful mission and a safe return here to earth at the conclusion of that mission .  but , mr. speaker , `` houston , we have got a problem '' right here on earth today , and that problem we all can agree to is the rising cost of health care , the impact that it is having on businesses large and small , family farmers , individual employees .  it is a crisis that has been building through a number of years , and there is nothing more heart-wrenching or gut-wrenching than to speak to young parents who have a young child in desperate need of emergency medical attention , having to take that child to the hospital knowing that they do not have adequate health care coverage to provide for their sick child .  today , one of the major factors for individual and personal bankruptcies is health care-related costs .  there is also nothing more disheartening than speaking to the multitude of small business owners throughout this country who would love nothing better than to be able to extend affordable health care coverage to their employees ; but they can not because it is too expensive .  i think we can all agree to the fact that this is something that we have to have focused attention to alleviate the high costs of health care and the growing ranks of the uninsured , which is roughly 45 million to 48 million today .  when we think about who comprises these 45 million to 48 million uninsured , the vast majority of them are working americans , working in small businesses who can not afford to provide coverage .  again , it is something we all recognize , because we hear about it daily when we are back home traveling in our congressional districts .  so , yes , action is needed ; but there is a right way and a wrong way in taking action .  a wrong way would be doing more harm than good in passing legislation and , for the previous hour , we have had a discussion in regard to the deficiencies and the shortfalls of the underlying associated health plans bill .  that is why over 1 , 400 organizations around the country have come out in opposition to it .  but today , the gentleman from new jersey ( mr. andrews )  and i are offering the right way , an alternative way , another approach to dealing with the health care crisis that our small businesses are facing , one that we believe would extend health care coverage to millions of americans , while keeping a lid on the rising premium costs .  what it does , in essence , mr. speaker , is it builds upon the successful framework that the federal employees health benefits program has offered to countless federal employees throughout the country .  it is a purchasing pool concept that they can enter into , with the competition of the marketplace and different insurance plans competing for that business that has proven to be extremely cost effective in not only extending coverage to millions of federal employees , but also by guaranteeing the state protections and consumer protections that have been passed by state legislatures throughout the country .  mr. speaker , it is one of the more amazing aspects of this debate that the party that claims to be for states ' rights and tries to take political advantage of saying , listen , states , we stand for you and what you decide to do on a policy level , is so quick to jettison states ' rights when it becomes politically inconvenient for their political allies , and that is exactly what is going on here today with the proposed associated health plans , which will preempt and trump the public policy decisions that have been made throughout this country by state legislatures .  now , our plan also would offer a minimum guarantee of coverage , one that the federal employee health plan currently does .  it does not preempt the consumer protections and the state laws that have been passed .  and the reason those state laws have been passed throughout the years is because the free marketplace and the insurance companies competing for the business were not offering this type of coverage , and that is why the state legislatures , in working with the governors , had to pass legislation requiring certain minimal safeguards of health care coverage .  so if a state legislature has felt in the past that it is necessary to require prenatal care , for instance , or to prohibit drive-through deliveries , or to require screening for diabetes , autism , cancer , they have chosen to do so ; and it has made sense for those states that have .  but , instead , this one-size-fits-all approach comes in and tries to preempt what the states have been doing for many , many years .  but what is also different with our substitute is it actually offers premium support payments to make it more affordable to small businesses to offer health care coverage to their employees , something that the underlying ahp plan is silent on .  again , an analysis of our bill would show that it would actually increase the coverage of the uninsured , help premium prices come down by building on this purchasing-pool concept , but also maintaining important and safe consumer protections .  there is a reason why the national governors association and the states attorneys general have opposed the underlying bill .  it is for all of these reasons , and we would respectfully submit the right approach is the substitute that we are offering today .  mr. speaker , i reserve the balance of my time .  mr. speaker , i yield myself 1 minute to respond quickly , just to clarify a couple of facts .  mr. speaker , i have all of the respect and admiration for the chair of our committee , but a closer reading of the substitute bill would not , in fact , require a federal-run program ; rather the department of labor would contract out the state-licensed health insurance plans in order to administer these programs .  but we do feel that there is a requirement or a necessity to offer greater incentives and inducements for small businesses to offer this coverage .  that is why we are offering a premium support program with it .  mr. speaker , i just recommend to the previous speaker that he should talk to any federal employee with regard to the choices that they are offered under the federal employee health plan .  mr. speaker , how much time remains ?  we are waiting to get a cost estimate back , but based on two previous debates on this issue , it was comparable to the amount of money set aside for the health savings account that has been a part of this bill in the past , but is not this year .  mr. speaker , i yield myself the balance of my time .  mr. speaker , i think there is wide agreement , bipartisan agreement that we have got a serious issue on our hands , a huge challenge that is facing our nation , that is , rising health care costs and the impact it is having on economic growth , the opportunities for businesses large and small to grow and hire additional workers .  i think it is one of the main reasons why we have experienced such anemic job growth in this country in recent years , because of the hesitancy of so many businesses , especially small businesses to hire additional workers because of the associated rising health care costs .  it is something that we must address in order to deal with an expanding economy at a rate that we would all like to see , but also to get a grip on the stagnant wages right now that are holding so many of our workers back .  i think there is a direct cause and effect whereas the typical worker 's wages have been frozen in effect in recent years because of the additional costs coming out of their pockets to afford health care .  that is why , again , we have had an important debate today , but it is one we should be working on in a bipartisan fashion to address the underlying causes .  volumes have been written about the underlying associated health plan that is before us today .  and , unfortunately , the verdict is in and that verdict is this is just bad public policy .  that is why so many of the governors and so many of the attorneys general , and the commissioners of insurance , the association of state legislatures in a bipartisan fashion have roundly criticized and condemned the underlying associated health plan , because they feel as we do on this side that it will do more harm than good .  i understand and appreciate the motivation on the other side to try to move forward on this issue .  but we are stuck .  the wheels are stuck in the mud , and it is just spinning because it is not getting any traction .  and that is because the senate in their analysis of the underlying bill has found that it , too , is bad public policy .  and i am afraid we are going to have this debate today , it is going to expire and it is going to get stuck with no progress being made .  perhaps there may be some deficiencies in what we are offering in our substitute , just as we believe there are deficiencies in theirs .  but now is the time for us to come together to try to find some common ground so we can make progress and deal with this issue that is affecting more and more americans every year .  one of the issues that really has not received that much attention , and i would just like to close on and highlight it , is again the fact of the federal preemption and taking away from states the ability to conduct proper oversight and accountability with these insurance plans .  both the gao in a study and a recent georgetown university study that came out this summer indicated that the underlying ahp bill , as it is written with the weak provisions that would go to the department of labor , would lead to an explosion of fraud and abuse with these types of plans throughout the country .  and there is a history of fraud and abuse .  currently , there are over 144 plans that are set up fraudulently that are not paying the claims that are affecting well over 200 , 000 workers .  but for the effective oversight and the policing that is taking place at the state level , even these would probably go unnoticed .  it would impact more and more americans .  it is another reason why the underlying bill does not make sense , why the federal preemption over state jurisdiction , which has been the history of health care regulation in this country , is another bad idea .  our substitute addresses that by not preempting state law by allowing the state jurisdiction and oversight to continue .  it does build upon the concept of a purchasing pool modeled after the federal employee health plan which , as was stated earlier , has worked marvelously over the years .  no one is recommending dismantling that .  i would encourage a `` yes '' on the substitute and a `` no '' on the underlying bill .  mr. speaker , on that i demand the yeas and nays .  mr. speaker , i want to thank the gentlewoman for yielding me this time and for her leadership and consistent work on behalf of the american people regardless of what issue and what bills we are dealing with today .  i want to say that i join her today in opposition to this rule and to the underlying bill .  it is fundamentally flawed not only for what it does , but for what it fails to do .  mr. speaker , if this bill were made law , we would still have well over 44 million people in our country uninsured .  something is wrong .  something is fundamentally wrong where in the wealthiest nation in the world we have 44 million uninsured .  where , quite frankly , is the morality in that ?  under this bill , of the 45 million uninsured americans in this country , only 600 , 000 people would move into coverage , while 10 , 000 workers with coverage would be pushed off of their current plans .  not only does this bill fail to provide any significant coverage for the uninsured , it also puts women and girls at risk by preempting very strong state laws .  specifically , the bill overrides contraceptive protections in 21 states that currently ensure access to contraceptives and treatments for sexually transmitted diseases .  clearly , mr. speaker , this bill puts women and girls at risk and makes empty promises to millions of uninsured americans in desperate need of health care .  instead of considering this bill , we should be debating the real question : how do we begin to put people before profits in our own health care system ?  millions of americans are calling on congress to address this question by debating and voting on meaningful proposals , like universal health care , reimportation of prescription drugs , and allowing hhs to negotiate drug prices for medicare recipients .  it is time for congress to wake up and take a hard look at our broken health care system .  it is time for us to make a real effort at reform .  mr. speaker , h.r. 525 does nothing to expand health care to those who need it the most , and it undermines vital protections for women and girls .  as a former small business owner , i know from years of experience the difficulties small businesses face due to a lack of consistent cash flow to afford these payments .  profitability for small businesses to afford health care contributions should really be addressed , and that is what we should be talking about today .  what this bill should do is assist small employers or employees in affording premium payments .  i am sure that is why 69 local chambers of commerce , the national governors association , 41 attorneys general , blue cross/blue shield , and over 1 , 300 business , labor and community organizations oppose h.r. 525 .  this bill is bad for the health of our country .  mr. speaker , as we worked on this on the committee on education and the workforce , we tried to put our thoughts into it .  people have to understand , if the main bill is passed , health care for our small employers is not going to help the majority of those employees seeking coverage .  the recommittal goes back to what the states have already done , mainly because in the beginning the insurance companies would not give health care to women that needed to have a mammogram or to have a pap smear to make sure they do not have cervical cancer .  this house spends money constantly on cancer research , and here we are using a tool that we can prevent cancer and make sure that women are treated earlier .  with this bill , the mainline bill is taking that away .  i ask my colleagues , do not be fooled , stand up for your state .  stand up for the health care of your constituents .  that is what our job is .  mr. speaker , i rise to support the motion to recommit because ahps are awful health plans .  ahps roll back state benefit standards that protect women and children .  they are awful for women ; they are awful for children .  our motion protects americans who have access to mental health benefits .  it protects families ' access to maternity care and well-baby checks .  maternity coverage is critical for women .  it should not be optional .  fortunately , many states require health plans to cover maternity care and well-baby checks for their children .  the bottom line is healthy moms equal healthy children .  healthy children , valuing children 's lives , should be a goal we all share .  children deserve a healthy start in life with regular visits to the doctor and necessary immunizations .  preventive care makes economic sense .  it can prevent avoidable illness and reduce future health care costs .  i encourage all members to reject awful health plans and to support the motion to recommit .  mr. speaker , i thank the gentleman for yielding me this time .  i must say the republicans are on a roll here .  last week they voted in the committee on education and the workforce to raise the cost of education to those students seeking a higher education by raising the cost of the loans that they will seek to finance that education .  in this legislation what we see them doing is taking away vital health benefits that millions of americans currently have but will lose if this legislation is passed .  and later this week they are going to bring an energy to the bill to the floor of the congress that the wall street journal says will raise the price of gasoline .  what is it that the middle class did to them to make them so angry at them ?  they raise the cost of their education , they take away their health care benefits , and now they are going to increase the price of gasoline .  do the members know what the price of gasoline is in california ?  it is $ 2.67 , $ 2.77 , $ 2.87 a gallon .  do the members know how hard people have struggled in these states to have minimum health care benefits so that they can have a mammogram , so they can have diabetes testing , and now they are going to take that away .  and now they raise the cost of college education .  it just does not make any sense .  the theory is that congress should be trying to extend meaningful health care coverage to families and to making sure that they have benefits that , in fact , are there when they need them .  but that is not what this legislation does .  this legislation overrides all of the hard work that was done in 40 or 45 states to make sure that people would have access to well baby care , to make sure that they would have access to maternity benefits , to make sure that they would have access to mammograms , crucial services that families need .  this legislation says not necessarily so , they do not get that , on the theory that we have heard argued here that some plan is better than no plan .  but a plan without benefits is not worth much at all .  and why would one keep paying premiums even if they are low premiums if they do not get the coverage that their family needs ?  the point is for the people running that plan , that can turn out to be very profitable .  that is why they do not want the insurance commissioners involved , because at some point the insurance commissioners would do what they have done in the past .  they would blow the whistle on people running plans where they take premiums from middle-class workers , but they do not give the benefit that they want .  the record is replete with that , replete with that in state after state after state .  but that is stripped out of this legislation .  this legislation should be rejected because it just is not the benefits that people need .  what we ought to be doing is extending that kind of universal access to plans that provide people the benefits .  the congressional budget office in its most recent report , april of this year , analyzed the legislation two other times and concluded that 8 1/2 million workers would end up in ahps under this bill , and over 90 percent of them would come from existing health care plans where in all likelihood their benefits are better .  the cbo looked at it once , it looked at it twice , it looked at it three times , and it said that is their conclusion .  this means that millions of americans , working americans today with health insurance , under this plan would get stripped of the health care coverage that they now have and that they need , that they need .  they are talking about trying to cover a couple hundred thousand people .  that is their argument , but they are going to strip the health care benefits away from almost 8 million people that have this kind of coverage .  it is unacceptable .  we ought to reject this .  later this week we ought to reject the energy bill , and maybe we can do something to keep people in decent health care plans , lower their energy costs , and , when the higher ed bill comes , reject that , and we can save them some money on a college education .  mr. speaker , i offer a motion to recommit .  i am , mr. speaker .  mr. speaker , i submit a motion to recommit along with my colleagues on the committee on education and the workforce , the gentlewoman from new york ( mrs. mccarthy )  , the gentlewoman from california ( ms. woolsey )  , and the gentlewoman from minnesota ( ms. mccollum )  .  this motion shows exactly what the issue is about .  it is about the minimum standard of health care protection for all americans , including those who work for small businesses .  mr. speaker , all employees , including the employees of small employers , may need access to pregnancy , to well-child care , to cancer treatment , mental health treatment , or even diabetes treatment .  we should not encourage insurers to offer bare-bones treatment that does not protect anyone .  everyone gets sick at some point in their lives , and everyone will need access to a meaningful package of benefits .  that is why i am offering this motion to recommit .  mr. speaker , i would hope that people would support this motion to recommit .  this is fundamental and basic .  it is about whether or not people will have coverage that works for them when they or a member of their family becomes sick .  cbo has looked at this legislation three times , and three times they have determined that almost 8 million people who today have health care coverage that is good coverage , they will be stripped of that coverage and put into these ahps .  in fact , they expect that 90 percent of the new enrollees will be people who come out of better plans who will lose that coverage that people have fought hard for in almost every state in this union , to have those kinds of health care protections that our three colleagues just spoke about in support of this motion to recommit .  i would urge the house to support the motion to recommit and reject this legislation that is harmful to the health care coverage of millions of americans and their families .  mr. speaker , on that i demand the yeas and nays .  mr. speaker , i rise in support of the small business health fairness act , h.r. 525 , which will allow small businesses and associations to band together to purchase health insurance coverage for their workers and their families .  the small business health fairness act can directly benefit the over 2 , 300 small businesses and associations in my congressional district and their employees .  h.r. 525 would allow ahps and small businesses to be certified under one federal law , instead of 50 different state regulations .  like large employers and labor unions that offer health insurance to their employees and members , ahps would be regulated by the u.s. department of labor .  many opponents of the small business health fairness act claim that ahps will `` cherry pick '' and therefore only benefit healthy people .  this is not true .  all ahps must comply with the health insurance portability and accountability act , which prohibits group plans from excluding high-risk individuals that have required repeated health insurance claims .  h.r. 525 also guarantees that only bona fide professional and trade associations can sponsor an ahp .  this measure ensures that ahps will undergo a strict , new certification process before they will be allowed to offer health benefits to employers .  this new certification process includes stronger solvency standards , including stop-loss and indemnification insurance .  studies have shown that ahps would save the typical small business owner between 15 percent and 30 percent on health insurance .  currently , there are 45 million americans who are uninsured .  even more troubling is the fact that 60 percent of uninsured americans work for small businesses that lack the resources to provide health care benefits to their workers .  in fact , 65 percent of small-business owners indicate high cost as the main reason why they do not offer health insurance .  small employers are facing 50 percent premium hikes , even as many insurers are leaving the small group market because it is not profitable enough .  the time to offer small businesses and associations the ability to band together to offer health insurance to their employees is now .  the small business health fairness act represents a first step in helping to lower the number of uninsured americans , many of whom work for small businesses .  h.r. 525 would introduce more competition into the market , reduce unnecessary regulation and administrative costs and make health coverage more affordable for small employers and their employees .  i urge support of h.r. 525 .  i thank the gentleman for yielding time .  mr. speaker , let us understand something fundamental here .  people do not just want the appearance of health insurance .  they want a program that they can trust and that will pay when they incur the claim , and that is the critical problem with the bill being put before us .  there are no meaningful consumer safeguards .  this can manifest itself in three critical ways .  first , as to content .  we all know about insurance loopholes , the fine print that says , oh , we will pay your claim unless you file a claim , in which case we wo n't pay the claim .  this kind of malarkey has been with us ever since insurance first came in the marketplace .  insurance commissioners make certain that the policy does what it purports to do , no fine print taking away the meaningful coverage .  this bill takes away that insurance commissioner protection provided to the consumers .  the second protection , rating .  do you know that in our states , there was a company that tried to sell a policy that actually raised the premium whenever you went to see a doctor ?  you thought you had good health care coverage , you went to see a doctor , your premium went up until it quickly became unaffordable .  that is no insurance coverage .  there is not the kind of protection on this kind of terrible rating scheme in this plan .  as an insurance commissioner , i have seen rating schemes .  do not think for a second there are not people that will try this under this legislation .  consumers need protection there .  thirdly , solvency .  if there is one part of this bill that i think just screams out , `` this is stupid , '' it is the part on solvency .  there is a $ 2 million cap on the solvency required for an ahp , no matter how many lives you have .  millions and millions of lives , $ 2 million maximum coverage .  do you know that the claims incurred by two premature babies could totally bust this plan ?  again , people want coverage that is there when they need it , not coverage that gives them the appearance of having something only to have it go bust because it did not have enough capitalization .  this business of capping solvency stands in stark contrast to any actuarial approach and shows that this is absolute danger for our consumers .  reject this bill .  mr. speaker , i rise in opposition to h.r. 525 , the small business health fairness act , but in strong support of meaningful measures to help small businesses offer affordable , quality health care coverage to their employees .  for many businesses in my congressional district and across the country , the rising cost of health insurance is a growing crisis .  currently , many small businesses devote significant resources to offer health insurance to their employees -- money they could have otherwise invested in their businesses .  others have had to reduce or drop coverage entirely .  while i agree that we must find a solution to this problem , h.r. 525 is not the answer , for several reasons .  first , supporters of h.r. 525 claim the legislation would reduce the number of uninsured .  however , a recent urban institute survey states that the number would actually increase , because some small employers in the state-regulated market would be forced to drop coverage when premiums increase as a result of the creation of association health plans , ahps .  second , ahps would be exempt from state rules that limit how much and how often premiums can be increased , making it likely that premiums would go up rather than down .  in fact , the congressional budget office estimates that ahp legislation would result in higher premiums for 80 percent of small employers , and as many as 100 , 000 sick people would lose coverage because they would not be able to afford the increases .  finally , ahps would mean that consumers would lose important health benefits , such as treatment and care for diabetes , child immunizations , cancer screenings , and preventive care .  consumers would lose state-based patient protections such as direct access to specialty care , emergency care , and the right to an independent , external review of denied medical claims .  instead of this flawed bill , i support the substitute offered by representatives kind and andrews .  this legislation would expand the health care options available for small businesses by building on the efforts of many state governments that are providing health care plans specifically for small businesses .  under the substitute , federal and state health insurance pools would be created for small businesses to band together to purchase coverage .  participating businesses would be able to defray the costs of their participation through a 4-year tax credit provided under the legislation .  by grouping small companies in healthcare pools , this bill would give small firms some of the same advantages large corporations have in trying to keep costs down .  mr. speaker , i urge my colleagues to oppose the small business health fairness act , and instead support real relief for small businesses trying to meet the health care needs of their employees by voting for the kind-andrews substitute .  mr. speaker , i rise today in support of the kind/andrews substitute and in strong opposition to h.r. 525 , the small business health fairness act of 2005 .  we have the opportunity to give small business owners and employees meaningful access to affordable and comprehensive coverage by adopting the kind/andrews substitute .  or , by passing h.r. 525 , we can give access to cheap , flimsy insurance policies that will not provide meaningful protection and leave those who need better coverage far worse off .  all of us are concerned about the high cost of health insurance , particularly for small businesses .  we all agree that we need to allow small businesses to band together to achieve economies of scale in purchasing coverage .  the kind/andrews substitute would give small businesses the ability to pool together through a small employer health benefits plan .  it would provide premium assistance to make coverage affordable for small business employers and employees .  the kind/andrews substitute will guarantee that insurance policies are not worthless paper but provide meaningful access to benefits .  what the kind/andrews substitute will not do is preempt state consumer protection laws -- laws that have been enacted by state legislatures on a bipartisan basis in response to real-life problems in the insurance market .  the kind/andrews approach would benefit employers and consumers .  the so-called small business health fairness act of 2005 would not .  in fact , this ill-conceived bill would make the current situation worse -- adding to the ranks of the uninsured , reducing benefits , and leaving small business workers with insurance policies that do not provide the care that they and their families need .  there are three fundamental problems with this bill -- all of which stem from the decision to preempt state laws and leave no other protections in their place .  first , the bill will not significantly reduce the number of uninsured and may actually make this crisis worse .  it would preempt state insurance regulation -- allowing association health plans to cherry pick healthy small businesses .  small businesses with older workers , persons with disabilities or chronic conditions , and women of child-bearing age would face higher premiums .  the nonpartisan congressional budget office estimates that only 620 , 000 uninsured workers would buy these new , barebones policies but that 75 percent of currently insured small business employees -- 20 million -- would see their premiums increase .  national small business united -- a group whose reason for being is to promote the interests of small businesses -- opposes the bill because it would increase health `` insurance premiums for small employers by up to 23 percent and cause some to drop coverage altogether .  a mercer consultants study in 2003 found that it would actually increase the number of uninsured by 1 million .  the cbo says that up to 100 , 000 of the most medically needy workers -- those with chronic , ongoing conditions or disabilities -- would be among those losing coverage .  second , the bill would take away protections from consumers victimized by fraud and abuse .  all 50 states and the district of columbia have passed tough laws to stop abuses in the small group health insurance market .  again , these laws would be preempted .  the u.s. department of labor is not going to have the will or the resources to respond when consumers are injured by benefit denials , ahps go belly-up , or fraud is committed .  ahp policy holders and health consumers would be left in a regulatory blackhole -- with no place to turn if they are defrauded , cheated , or denied benefits .  that 's why the national association of insurance commissioners and 41 attorneys general oppose this bill .  third , the bill would preempt basic benefit requirements and patient protections , allowing ahps to drop coverage for preventive services , screening , mental health and other critical services .  cbo estimates that 8 million workers with health coverage today would lose benefits under h.r. 525 .  in illinois , we have enacted benefits that include mammograms , pap tests , minimum mastectomy stays , colorectal screening , diabetes education and supplies , pre- and postnatal care , mental health parity that goes beyond inadequate federal requirements , and access to cancer drugs .  we have a prudent layperson rule to ensure access to emergency services , direct access to ob-gyns , and a ban on hmos `` gagging '' doctors in their communications with patients .  we have prompt payment rules for providers and fair marketing requirements .  we require that insurance companies cover newborns .  those protections would be preempted under h.r. 525 .  many of us who previously served in state legislatures fought for those benefits because private insurance policies refused to cover items like mammograms , maternity care , diabetes education , prosthetics , or chemotherapy .  we had constituents whose insurance companies refused to cover their babies , arguing that conditions developed in the mother 's womb were `` preexisting. '' dropping those critical benefits will not make health care more affordable ; it will simply shift costs to employees and their families .  and , despite having so-called insurance , if workers can not afford to pay those costs on their own , they might as well be uninsured .  that is why groups from consumers union to the american diabetes association , from the national mental health association to the naacp oppose this bill .  i also want to point out that women have a tremendous stake in this debate .  nearly all women-owned firms are small firms , most with fewer than five employees .  women are half of all workers at very small firms .  and women are the beneficiaries of many of the state benefits enacted because private insurers refused to cover critical services -- mammography , pap smears , reconstructive surgery following mastectomies , contraceptive services , breast and cervical cancer screening , direct access to ob-gyns and nurse-midwives , and osteoporosis screening .  a bill that raises premiums to women-owned small businesses and cuts women 's health services is no solution .  finally , i want to respond to the arguments of the proponents of h.r. 525 that something is better than nothing .  as i have mentioned , for at least 8 million people , the something that would be provided under this bill would be a policy with lower benefits than they have today , for at least 20 million it would be a policy with higher premiums than they pay today .  that is hardly a good deal .  but there is a more important issue at stake here .  h.r. 525 says that we owe small business owners and employees nothing better than barebones coverage , an insurance policy that may be affordable but that does n't provide access to needed medical services and is stripped of consumer protections .  i believe that we can do better and that is why i support the kind/andrews substitute .  mr. speaker , i rise today in strong opposition to h.r. 525 , the regurgitated association health plan , ahp , bill .  this is the fourth vote on this exact same legislation in as many years .  so , if my statement sounds familiar , that 's because it has all been said before .  while they 've titled the bill the small business health fairness act , its impact would be the opposite .  this bill would have the perverse effect of increasing the cost of health insurance for many people and increase the number of people without health insurance altogether .  this bill would allow new entities , called association health plans , ahps , to bypass state regulation and offer bare-bones health insurance policies .  small businesses that do n't choose to offer these inadequate policies would see their premiums increase by 23 percent on average .  this premium hike would occur because ahps , which would offer only bare-bones coverage , would attract the healthiest individuals , leaving traditional health insurance plans with the sickest and most expensive patients .  this shift would penalize businesses with sicker employees , and make health insurance for those who need it the most even more unaffordable .  further , this legislation would swell the ranks of the uninsured by over 1 million more individuals .  as traditional health insurance becomes increasingly expensive , more and more businesses would have no choice but to drop health insurance for their employees , leaving these individuals with little or no opportunity to purchase health coverage .  contrary to what proponents of this bill claim , ahps would not truly help small businesses purchase health insurance for their employees .  although proponents claim that ahps would give small employers bargaining power to purchase affordable health insurance , most states already have laws in place that allow for group purchasing arrangements .  this bill would only harm existing laws while usurping the traditional role of states to regulate insurance .  in fact , this bill would override key state laws and regulations that protect millions of americans .  for example , many states regulate insurance premiums to prevent insurers from discriminating against the ill .  but under this bill those laws would n't apply .  ahps would be allowed to offer extremely low , `` teaser '' rates , and then rapidly increase the premium if the enrollee becomes sick .  furthermore , nearly all states have enacted external review laws that guaranteed patients an independent doctor review if a health plan denies them coverage for a particular service .  patients who join ahps would lose this vitally important consumer protection .  this bill also exempts ahps from state laws that require health insurance to cover particular benefits .  these laws have helped to ensure that millions of americans get access to the healthcare that they need -- such as mammography screenings , maternity care , well-child care , and prompt payment rules .  in my state of california , employees who join ahps could well lose access to these services as well as certain emergency services , direct access to ob/gyns , mental health parity , and other important benefits .  moreover , this law would allow health plans to `` gag '' doctors , the currently illegal practice of health insurers preventing doctors from discussing treatment options that the plan does not cover , even if some of those options are in the patient 's best medical interest .  the problems go on .  ahps are likely to create new fraud and abuse problems in health care as well .  these plans are very similar to multiple employer welfare plans , mewas , that congress created in the 1970s .  mewas were also exempt from state insurance regulation .  the department of labor found that many of these plans were frauds and left their enrollees holding the bag for more than $ 123 million in unpaid health expenses .  congress had to come back and clean up the law to end this blatant abuse .  we should learn from that mistake , not repeat it .  this bill is bad for patients , bad for small business , and bad for states .  it is opposed by more than 1 , 300 organizations , including the national governors association , the national association of insurance commissioners , the american academy of actuaries , local chambers of commerce , small business associations , physician organizations , labor unions , and healthcare coalitions .  the senate has no intention of taking up this legislation .  it 's bad policy , and our colleagues on the other side of the capitol know it .  taking yet another vote on ahps is an enormous waste of time and taxpayer resources , and has nothing to do with providing affordable healthcare options to our citizens .  health care reform should n't raise premiums , increase the number of uninsured , lead to massive fraud , and remove key state patient protections .  i urge my colleagues to reject this legislation once and for all .  mr. speaker , this so-called small business health fairness act is a bill that is attractive to a few , seems to be sufficient for none , and is going to be harmful for many .  the congressional budget office did an estimate of the proposed bill .  it estimated that only 600 , 000 of the 45 million uninsured will be provided new insurance coverage by these ahps .  in fact , the respected 2003 mercer consultant study that was done for the national small business association found that the number of uninsured will increase by 1 million , as increased nonassociated market costs force small employers to drop coverage .  the fact of the matter is there is not going to be the dramatic savings proposed here .  that is not going to materialize .  the congressional budget office found that these premiums for ahps would only be marginally less than traditional premiums for health care plans .  in fact , the 2003 mercer study found that premiums would increase by 23 percent for those outside the ahp market .  it also found that there would be an increase in the number of uninsured workers in small firms , an increase of 1 million people as a result of this plan being implemented .  again , the fact of the matter is that americans would also lose their right to vital medical coverage , like ob-gyn and pediatrician services , cervical , colon , mammography and prostate cancer screening , maternity benefits , well-care child services , and diabetes treatment .  mr. speaker , this bill is going to disallow a lot of state protections .  in fact , that is how you get cheaper insurance .  if you want to lower the price , you just do not give people the coverage that they need and deserve .  almost all of the states that we talk about have protections for people with coverage .  almost every member of this house voted for the federal patient bill of rights that would have recognized these state protections that are in place for insurance programs ; yet this bill would take those out carte blanche .  as a person in small business for over 22 years , and having represented a lot of small businesses , i can tell you from personal experience that small business employers do not want inferior coverage for their employees .  we can not allow it to happen again here .  in fact , mr. speaker , i can tell you that ahps really already exist .  they are called the multiple employer welfare arrangements , the mewas .  the public record is filled with stories of failed mewas that left employers and employees alike with unpaid medical bills .  from 1988 to 1991 , dozens of mewas failed , leaving 400 , 000 individuals with over $ 123 million of unpaid medical claims .  small business owners and their families and their employees deserve protections .  they deserve to go to the emergency room .  women in small businesses deserve to go to gynecologists without referral from another doctor .  why should we treat small business owners and employees as second-class citizens and give them second-class health care ?  instead of extending the patient protections to all americans , this ahp bill would actually roll them back and roll back the limited protections that they get today .  plainly speaking , mr. speaker , this bill eliminates all those protections .  for this reason and for the other reasons i have mentioned , and the fact that over 1 , 000 different organizations oppose this bill , the national governors association , the republican governors association , 41 state attorneys general , the national small business administration , the national association of insurance commissioners , as well as a dozen other labor , business and consumer groups think that this is not a good bill , i urge my colleagues to reject this bill and vote for the substitute .  mr. speaker , in every state and every district when we meet with small business owners , their number one concern is rising health care costs .  even as we sit here , the cost of health care continues to rise .  today 's legislation will help address this problem .  association health plans will provide an employer-based solution to help the sector of the economy that is being hit the hardest : small businesses .  critics of the bill will come forward today and tell you how association health plans are going to lead to a devastating impact on small businesses and the insurance market .  well , from where i stand , it is hard to imagine that it could get any worse .  we have 45 million americans without health insurance and over half are small businesses and their employees .  this includes up to 7 million children that have family members working for small firms .  and for the last 5 years , small businesses have seen insurance costs increase by over 60 percent .  these are statistics that are so often stated in this town that we forget what the real impact is .  when an employer has to spend an additional $ 3 , 000 a year for coverage per employee year after year , it is easy to understand why some are dropping coverage all together .  we have a modest solution before us today that no one can claim will address all of the problems , but it can provide some help in a market that needs it .  i think it is important to talk about what association health plans are and what they are not .  these plans will be under the same set of rules that apply to corporate and union plans .  in fact , the requirements for association health plans are even more strict .  it will require that an association health plan have sufficient reserves to pay all claims .  it includes protections against cherry-picking to prevent adverse selection .  it provides a structure to ensure that the dol can monitor these plans .  critics will cite an outdated cbo study that does not even examine the legislation before us today .  will association health plans cure all of the problems when it comes to health insurance in the small group market ?  absolutely not .  but will it bring some elements of affordability and competition in these markets ?  i think so .  by some estimates , this bill is estimated to provide as many as 8 million americans with insurance , no small sum .  one of the best indicators as to whether ahps will increase competition is the strong opposition from insurance companies .  they are worried that they will lose their stranglehold on the small-group market .  these insurance companies with highly paid lobbyists from blue cross/blue shield , for example , that hold monopolies on state markets are worried that they will have to start negotiating premiums rather than dictating them .  i rise in strong support of this legislation .  i ask my colleagues to do the same .  just as important , i call on the senate to act on this legislation and the administration to put its full backing behind this bill .  this nation 's entrepreneurs deserve it .  mr. speaker , the preemption of state law that is allowed under h.r. 525 makes no sense .  for example , 49 states guarantee that health insurance plans include mammograms , and for good reason .  we know that if a woman has health insurance , the likelihood she will receive a mammogram is promising .  we know that early detection increases a woman 's chance of surviving breast cancer .  no one knows this better than my constituents in marin county , california , who suffer from the highest rates of breast cancer in the country .  they deserve more protections from this deadly disease , not a rollback in coverage of the most basic screening tool we have , mammograms .  they are looking to congress to help more women get the services they need to catch this disease before it becomes fatal .  instead , today we are telling them that insurance companies are allowed to trump state law and decide what is best for their health .  i am sure that all of the men and women here today want their wives , sisters , mothers , and daughters to have annual screenings as recommended by physicians .  it is common sense .  i urge each of my colleagues , support the women in your lives .  support the motion to recommit .  i thank the gentleman for yielding me this time .  mr. speaker , i rise in strong support of h.r. 525 , the small business health fairness act , designed to allow small businesses to create large insurance pools in order to give them market power which will allow them to purchase quality health insurance at affordable prices through association health plans .  in truth , our biggest bipartisan failure in this congress has been our inability to help 45 million , now pushing 50 million , americans who do not have health insurance .  sixty percent of these people work in small businesses or are self-employed .  unfortunately , small business employers either can not afford to offer health insurance or offer it at premium costs that employees can not afford .  small businesses and their employees need our help .  ahps are not a panacea , but they are a step in the right direction .  ahps , association health plans , will be subject to federal consumer protections , unlike what you may have heard , such as continuation of coverage ; federal claims procedures for benefit denials and appeals ; guaranteed portability and renewability of health coverage for those with preexisting conditions ; as well as the mental health parity act , the women 's health and cancer rights act , and the newborns ' and mothers ' health protection act .  we have also heard that ahps will allow for cherry-picking , that only the healthiest will be signed up .  that is not true due to the antidiscrimination language in the bill .  really and centrally , opponents claim that ahps are bad because they do not provide mandated state benefits .  this misanalysis reflects some of the backward thinking in our health care system , that people would put mandated benefits ahead of prevention .  that does not make sense .  consider a state 's mandated coverage for diabetes supplies .  but what good is mandated benefits for diabetes supplies if you can not afford to go to the doctor , and therefore do not know you have diabetes ?  under ahps you have an affordable , basic policy which covers doctors ' visits .  therefore , you can get checkups and learn about your risk of diabetes or other health problems .  the doctor can give you advice , prescribe life-style changes , and help you overcome , control , or avoid health problems .  in fact , the american diabetes association cited a recently completed study on diabetes prevention that conclusively showed that people with prediabetes can prevent the development of type 2 , or full-blown , diabetes by making changes in their diet and increasing their level of physical activity .  our approach provides affordable access to this kind of preventive care , allowing people to lead healthier lives and not go to the emergency room , which is driving up costs for all of us .  some of our elitist opponents will call these policies worthless because they do not offer 30 or more state mandates .  for a single mother who is a waitress who is able to take her son to the doctor , that is not a worthless policy .  that is called progress .  if the plans are so inadequate , do n't worry , the people wo n't buy them .  most professional men and women have health insurance .  members of congress have a great health insurance plan .  members of labor unions have health insurance .  why do they not want the mechanics and the barbers and the waitresses and the realtors to have health insurance ?  the attitude of our opponents seems to be , `` i drive a cadillac .  if you ca n't afford to drive a cadillac , you do n't get to drive at all. '' that does not make sense .  today 45 million americans can not afford a cadillac health insurance policy with all the mandated benefits .  however , they might be able to afford a more modest vehicle that would get them to their doctor 's office where they could at least get a diagnosis , advice and recommendations in order to improve their quality of life .  a broad and diverse coalition of more than 180 groups support this bill , including the u.s. chamber of commerce , the national federation of independent business , the american farm bureau , the associated builders and contractors , the latino coalition , and the national black chamber of commerce .  people want health insurance .  opponents of ahps say , `` if you ca n't do everything for everyone , do nothing. '' we say this bill will help some people get health insurance , and we think that is a good thing .  please , support ahps .  let us quit talking about health insurance and actually deliver it to the american people who work in small businesses and who are self-employed , because they really need it .  mr. speaker , today i rise in opposition to this rule and the underlying measure of h.r. 525 .  this country leads in medicine and technology .  when combined with increased education and awareness , we have made diseases more preventable and treatable .  we have made huge strides , for example , diagnosing and treating breast cancer .  women are now going in for annual mammograms .  in and of itself , mammograms do not prevent breast cancer , but they can save lives by finding breast cancer as early as possible .  for example , mammograms have been shown to lower the chance of dying from breast cancer by 35 percent in women over the age of 50 .  and studies suggest for women between 40 and 50 , they may lower the chance of dying of breast cancer by 25 to 35 percent .  having worked on educational campaigns for over a decade , i know that it has not been easy to convince women that they should be asking their doctor for a mammogram , nor , i might add , has it been easy to ensure that health insurance companies cover the cost of these mammograms .  but through the tireless efforts of doctors , survivors , and advocates , the insurance companies relented .  today we are increasingly catching and treating breast cancer in the early stages , yet the legislation we are debating here on the floor today would effectively roll back these advances , and , even worse , doctors would now have to tell the 28-year-old woman who thinks she has found a lump in her breast that her health care insurance does not cover a mammogram to better see the abnormality ; that her health care coverage is no longer subject to minimum standards established by her state because she is covered by an associated health plan , an ahp , which is located in a different state with far more relaxed laws on health care coverage .  too many americans are already without sufficient health care coverage .  they are being forced to accept health care that does not provide what they need when they fall ill , whether it is breast cancer exams , diabetes medication , or childhood vaccinations .  why would we increase the number of these individuals without adequate health care coverage ?  some may claim that these standards for health care treatments , like those that require insurance companies to cover mammograms , are nothing but burdensome regulations , but these safeguards go to the heart of what responsible health care is all about : providing necessary care to those in need .  and ahps would not even reduce the cost of the premiums .  under the legislation we debate today , ahps could skim off a small minority of small businesses , those with younger and healthier workforces .  as a direct result , 80 percent of small businesses would see an increase in their health care premiums .  mr. speaker , i truly question what we are doing today .  why would we create a situation that increases the already skyrocketing health care costs for four out of five small businesses ?  sadly , this is what we are doing .  we are putting our small businesses in the awkward position of not being able to offer health care coverage to that young woman facing the possibility of breast cancer , or offering access to a health care plan that will not cover her diagnosis and certainly not a treatment .  we could do better by that young woman and our nation 's small business owners .  congress could pass the democratic substitute offered by the gentleman from wisconsin ( mr. kind )  and the gentleman from new jersey ( mr. andrews )  , which would allow small business employees to access the same quality health care coverage which federal employees enjoy .  the substitute 's federal partnership would allow this plan to be offered at an affordable price .  this alternative would truly have a positive impact , ensuring that americans have access to affordable and quality health care .  i urge my colleagues to support it .  unfortunately , the legislation we debate on the floor , h.r. 525 , which would create ahps will most likely worsen health care situations .  mr. speaker , if we , members of congress , would not accept a health plan that does not include minimum coverage , why then should the american people ?  we have an opportunity today .  we can support the democratic alternative and pass legislation that actually addresses the critical health care problems facing small business owners , or we can pass the legislation in front of us that does the opposite .  it should not be a difficult decision .  mr. speaker , i urge all members to votes against the rule and the underlying bill .  mr. speaker , i reserve the balance of my time .  mr. speaker , i yield myself such time as i may consume to comment that only 1 out of every 14 people enrolled in an ahp will be newly insured .  overwhelmingly , this is a bill that shifts the already insured into plans with lower coverage .  mr. speaker , i reserve the balance of my time .  mr. speaker , i reserve the balance of my time .  mr. speaker , i reserve the balance of my time .  mr. speaker , i yield myself the balance of my time .  earlier this month , the los angeles times ran a story that i think cuts to the heart of this discussion .  it is the story of a husband and wife living in southern california .  after successfully battling bone cancer 7 years earlier , doug did what so many americans would like to do .  he started a small business making boat parts .  soon , he was approached by an ahp offering a $ 400-a-month health insurance policy which even included special cancer coverage .  tragically , a few months after he purchased the policy , his cancer returned and it became quite clear that the quality of that association plan was not what doug or his wife , dana , expected .  it turned out that this particular plan covered less than 18 percent of doug 's $ 550 , 000 treatment cost .  doug and dana rapidly found themselves buried under hundreds of thousands of dollars in bills .  and as his wife recounted to the los angeles times , at several points before the cancer ultimately claimed his life , doug begged her to divorce him so that she would not be responsible for his debt .  i can not believe this is the solution we are offering to small business owners like doug and dana .  the american people deserve better .  mr. speaker , this bill offers no health care solutions for small business owners .  it raises premiums on 80 percent of small businesses ; will increase the number of uninsured by 1 million people ; and reduce coverage for another 7 million individuals who are most in need of care .  my friends on the other side might find these facts inconvenient , but that does not make them less true .  and it will accomplish all of this by loosening or removing consumer protections and by walking away from state mandates that guarantee treatment for diabetes and screenings for breast cancer .  we can do much , much better than this for america , mr. speaker .  i urge members to oppose the rule , oppose the underlying bill , and support the kind-andrews substitute .  madam speaker , i rise today in support of the wind cave national park boundary revision act of 2005 .  wind cave national park is one of our nation 's oldest national parks and one of the jewels in our national park system .  established over 100 years ago , wind cave was the first cave in the world to be set aside as a national park .  at the turn of the 20th century , its first explorers reported that the cave was only three miles long .  well , that report was a little off .  today , we know that the cave has over 117 miles of mapped tunnels and explorers are still discovering new passages .  this makes it the fifth largest cave in the world .  these passages contain many natural treasures -- rare and exceptional displays of box work , a honeycomb-shaped formation that protrudes from the cave 's ceilings and walls , as well as other rare cave formations , and a geology that scientists are still working to understand .  past congresses recognized the value of these treasures by creating the park ; our ability to enjoy them today is a testament to their foresight .  with over 28 , 000 acres today , the park 's surface is an impressive asset as well .  the wind cave national park boundary revision act would expand this stewardship to include an additional 5 , 000 acres of mixed grass prairie , ponderosa pine forest , and a dramatic river canyon .  home to native wildlife such as bison , elk , pronghorn , mule deer , coyotes , and prairie dogs , the park is one of the few remaining mixed-grass ecosystems in the country .  the expansion would be a natural extension of this habitat and enhance the park 's holdings .  this project began when the ranching family that owns the land approached the national parks service over 3 years ago .  the black hills region of south dakota is developing rapidly and , rather than allow the land to be developed into subdivisions and strip malls , they envisioned preserving it for future generations .  that initial discussion expanded to the surrounding community , state government , and eventually , the united states congress .  the bill 's passage in the senate and its consideration here today are the fruits of those discussions .  in addition to receiving support in the house of representatives from my two predecessors and myself , this bill enjoys the bipartisan backing of the south dakota senate delegation and south dakota governor mike rounds .  as the expansion project has proceeded , interested parties have weighed in with their concerns and they have been answered .  wind cave national park has protected and preserved a national treasure for over 100 years .  the wind cave national park boundary revision act is a unique opportunity to expand the park and enhance its value to the public so that visitors can enjoy it forever .  it is my hope that my colleagues will support the expansion of this park and vote in favor of this important legislation .  mr. chairman , i come reluctantly before you to re-express my desire to protect all our children from predators , and i am confident that i speak for all members when we say that each new abduction brings a concern , an outrage that we all feel .  child molesters prey on those that are most vulnerable in our society , and we must stop them .  but how can we stop them if we are primarily creating 36 new mandatory minimum criminal penalties that are completely arbitrary , that have been shown to be ineffective at reducing crime , and a consummate waste of taxpayer money ?  but that is not the only reason .  thanks to mandatory minimum sentences , almost 10 percent of all inmates in the federal and state prisons are serving life sentences , an 83 percent increase since 1992 .  in two states , new york and california , 20 percent of the people in prison are serving life sentences .  and what do we have to show for these statistics ?  well , a system that currently houses more than 2 million americans , almost four times the number of individuals incarcerated in 1985 , at a cost of $ 40 billion to run and operate .  we create additional new death penalty eligibility offenses .  this spring , 120 death row inmates were exonerated due to proof of their innocence .  so , in the end , if we are truly serious about protecting our children from acts of sexual exploitation and violence , we have got to turn to prevention .  we have got to use preventative solutions that really try to get to the root of the problem instead of after-the-fact criminal penalties that do not address the issue .  do these sick people check the statutes to find out what the newest penalties are or whether they are mandatory or not or whether they can carry additional incarceration terms ?  i doubt it .  finally , we have people that have written , professionals , scientific researchers treatment professionals , child advocates , who have serious reservations about this measure , h.r. 3132 .  from the center on child abuse and neglect , the editor-in-chief on child maltreatment , the journal of american professional society of the abuse of children , the director of crimes against children research center , the national crime victims research and treatment center , dr .  friedrich of the mayo clinic and mayo medical school , from the board of directors association of the treatment of sexual abusers , all these letters have poured in urging that we put more prevention into this measure rather than less .  please let us turn this measure back .  mr. chairman , i thank the gentlewoman , and i think that covers it .  mr. chairman , i just wanted to commend the minority leader on the legislative history she has recounted for the benefit of us who have dealt with this across the years and add that this is a bipartisan measure .  i only wish that all of our colleagues on the other side of the aisle who support this measure would also join with their voices and their votes with us on this very important day .  we can track back a record that goes back to reconstruction where we have been trying to attempt to successfully pass this measure .  so i congratulate the gentlewoman on her explanation of why we are here .  mr. chairman , i demand a recorded vote .  mr. chairman , i thank my friend from virginia very much for the time .  mr. chairman , i rise today in strong support of h.r. 3132 , the children 's safety act of 2005 .  i am proud to have been an original cosponsor of this legislation , and i thank the gentleman from wisconsin ( mr. sensenbrenner )  for incorporating a piece of legislation that the gentleman from florida ( mr. foley )  and i proposed last year , the sex offenders registration and notification act .  the gentleman from florida ( mr. foley )  and i stood with john walsh , with ernie allen , with the center for missing and exploited children , representatives of the boys and girls club as well , and parents of children who have been killed by sex offenders .  this children 's safety act of 2005 does , in fact , close the gaps .  it tightens the ability to track down where convicted sex offenders are living and to improve the ways we notify our neighborhoods and our school districts when convicted sex offenders choose to live in our community .  i am pleased that the gentleman from florida 's ( mr. foley )  legislation and my legislation was effectively included in title i of the bill we are considering today .  when watching the news for the past 2 years , it is sickening to see of how many communities , how many neighborhoods , how many parents are terrorized because sex offenders are back in their neighborhoods .  i know from being a district attorney that our states have done a lot to correct the gaps , but more needs to be done .  as a father , i do not want to see a child of mine victimized in that way , and i want to put myself in the shoes of those parents who had to experience this dreadful victimization .  we must support this legislation today because the children 's safety act will increase and tighten supervision of those sex offenders and will enhance uniform notification standards for tracking sex offenders .  i strongly believe that this comprehensive bill finally will give law enforcement officers the tools and resources they need to track these criminals and to protect our children and families .  mr. chairman , i strongly urge my colleagues to adopt the children 's safety act .  mr. chairman , i rise today to oppose the so-called child safety act , h.r. 3132 , because it forsakes meaningful crime reduction in favor of ineffective solutions that will only create a false illusion that our children are better protected from sexual abuse .  we have all read with heartbreak and anger the horrible , the terrible stories of sexual abuse , abduction , and murder of children .  it is clear that we need to protect children from sexual predators and pedophiles through stronger laws and better enforcement .  i realize that voting against a bill with a title as attractive as this is easily misunderstood and mischaracterized .  but i have never been one to vote for form over substance , nor to shy away from standing up for what is right regardless of the political slings and arrows .  unfortunately , this bill will do more harm than good , and in the balance will do precious little to make our children safer .  i hope the senate will do better .  we need a real system that gives parents peace of mind and enables them to be aware of the presence of pedophiles in their neighborhood .  a national sex offender registry , that is maintained by the united states department of justice is a very good idea that i support .  members of every local community would be able to access this registry online , and be able to keep tabs on those who may pose harm to our children .  states would notify each other when sex offenders move between states , and reporting requirements would be uniform so that it 's easier to keep the lists current and accurate .  this is a sensible thing that we should be doing to protect our children .  i would be proud to support it and i hope it will be addressed on the floor in a more rational way .  that leads me to my overriding criticism of this bill : its flaws are so troubling and fundamental that it compels me to oppose passage despite my support of one component part .  this bill creates 36 new mandatory minimum penalties .  mandatory minimum penalties do not work .  they discount mitigating factors in crimes , prevent judges from meting out punishments that are tailored to the criminal , and have been proven discriminatory to people of color .  they do not work .  they may make legislators feel good but they have been shown not to reduce crime rates .  even the judicial conference , the group that represents federal judges , has said that mandatory minimums violate common sense .  let me explain how just one of the new minimums will make us less safe , instead of more .  if a previously convicted but released sex offender commits a technical violation of the reporting requirements -- for example , they miss the registration deadline by a day or a week -- they would receive a mandatory 5-year sentence .  there is no discussion , and there can be no evaluation by a federal judge .  the result is that sex offenders who miss the deadline or commit other technical violations will only be driven underground .  instead of turning themselves in , they will go under the radar and into unsuspecting communities .  this is exactly the opposite of what needs to happen .  also troubling is the fact that this legislation creates two additional death penalties .  yet , research has shown that capital punishment is not a deterrent to crime .  let me repeat , the death penalty simply does not reduce crime .  those who commit the most heinous and terrible crimes against our children should have to face being locked away for the rest of their lives , where they must contemplate their crimes until the end of their days , without posing harm to society .  but expanding the already ineffective death penalty to crimes where the victim 's death is not even intentional is not only illogical , it is immoral .  the government 's job is to prevent crime and punish criminals , often severely .  but killing citizens in order to exact retribution is inappropriate for a government that seeks to be moral .  we do need a child safety act , but it should be a real one .  we need sensible punishments and preventative measures that will actually reduce sexual predation , not just talk tough .  i am very disappointed that this bill weakens sound registration requirements and penalties by stacking them on fundamentally flawed provisions .  it is my hope that sensible actions to protect our children are considered at the earliest possible date .  mr. chairman , i appreciate the comments of the gentleman .  mr. chairman , i thank the gentleman for yielding me time .  mr. chairman , i rise in strong support of the children 's safety act of 2005 .  i commend the gentleman from wisconsin ( mr. sensenbrenner )  for this legislation and appreciate very much the bipartisan way in which he has worked with me in developing this legislation and in listening to the concerns that i have brought from experiences in our region .  deviant sexual predators have clearly shown us that sex offenders do not stop at state lines , and neither should our sex offender laws .  the children 's safety act is a comprehensive , bipartisan child safety bill that brings uniformity to our current sex offender registry system and increases penalties for those who prey upon our children .  the urgent need for a national system is clearly and tragically demonstrated by the case of dru sjodin .  dru sjodin was a lovely young woman , a senior at the university of north dakota , where she was holding down two jobs .  she was an exceptional student , a leader in our community .  she was abducted from a shopping center parking lot in broad daylight on a saturday afternoon nearly 2 years ago .  this type of disappearance never happens in our part of the country , and it traumatized the whole community .  thousands spent weeks trudging through snow banks in the worst weather we ever saw searching for dru .  well , 5 months later , her dead body was found in a ravine just outside of crookston , minnesota .  it just so happens the investigation has revealed that a recently released level iii sex offender from minnesota named alfonso rodriguez , jr. , was charged with dru 's kidnapping and murder .  he was living in minnesota .  we did not know of his existence in north dakota .  he was registered as a sex offender only in the state of minnesota .  this tragic example illustrates why we have to have a comprehensive response here , a nationwide internet available , a registry system that families can access .  it provides the kind of information in terms of where these high-risk offenders are living , where they are working , going to school , what kind of vehicle they are driving .  people need this information to keep their children safe , and that is why i am proud to be a cosponsor of this bill and pleased that the chairman has designated in the legislation this registry in memory of dru sjodin , the dru sjodin national sex offender registry .  the bill also has tough requirements for complying with keeping the registration information current so that the information on there is of value to families .  it also has tough sanctions for those who would harm our children and , finally , federal dollars to assist local police departments in making certain that people are complying with their registry requirements .  i believe that this legislation is a comprehensive response to a significant public policy need , and i urge the adoption of this .  families need this protection .  mr. chairman , i yield myself such time as i may consume .  during the last few minutes , we have heard a lot of praise of mandatory minimums .  i just want to remind the house that the judicial conference writes us frequently and reminds us that mandatory minimums violate common sense .  that is because if the offense requires the mandatory minimum and that makes common sense , it can be applied ; but if it makes no sense , mandatory minimums require us to impose that sentence anyway .  many of the provisions of the bill are crimes which we do not think would be subject to 5- or 10-year mandatory minimums .  there is a provision in the bill that says that felonious assaults against a juvenile , which could be two juveniles having a fist fight in the school yard , if it gets into a big fight , that that is a 10-year mandatory minimum if no injury occurs .  now , of course , if an injury occurs in the fight , then you are talking about 20 years .  i think common sense should prevail and a more appropriate sentence could be given .  this entire registration program that requires people to register has not been shown to reduce the incidence of child molestation .  for someone who commits a crime , even as a juvenile , they will be subject to lifetime registration .  there is no suggestion and there is no evidence that that reduces crime .  it may actually increase crime .  we know that 90 percent of the offenses against children were people that would not be covered by the legislation , and 3.3 percent of those covered by the legislation might offend .  we have other ways of dealing with that in such a way that we can actually reduce that 3.3 as much as 50 percent .  we ought to be focused on that .  mr. chairman , we need to focus on the things that will actually reduce crime .  this bill , many of the provisions of it , obviously , do not ; and i would hope that we would focus appropriately to actually protect the children .  parliamentary inquiry , mr. chairman .  mr. chairman , are we in title iii ?  mr. chairman , if you are going to have any review , i think it ought to be a full review : sentencing , conviction , and otherwise .  i would hope that we would not make the bill any worse than it is , and the underlying provision is bad enough .  mr. chairman , i move to strike the requisite number of words .  mr. chairman , i rise in opposition to h.r. 3132 , the children 's safety act of 2005 .  once again , this congress is attempting to address a very serious and complicated problem with a law that substitutes the talking points of `` tough on crime '' politicians for the wisdom of judges , prosecutors , treatment professionals and child advocates .  as a father and someone who has fought for better foster care , education , and health care for children , i object to this ill-conceived legislation that is as much an attack on our independent judiciary as it is a bill to protect kids .  many child advocates themselves oppose this bill because kids in grade school or junior high will be swept up alongside paroled adults in sex offender registries .  many caught in registries would be 13 and 14 year olds .  in some states , children 10 and under would be registered .  this bill creates 36 new mandatory minimum sentences , which impose the judgment of congress over every case , regardless of the circumstances .  the judicial conference of the united states and the u.s. sentencing commission have found that mandatory minimums actually have the opposite of their intended effect .  they `` destroy honesty in sentencing by encouraging plea bargains. '' they treat dissimilar offenders in a similar manner , even though there are vast differences in the seriousness of their conduct and their danger to society .  judges serve a very important role in criminal justice , and congress should not attempt to do their job for them .  finally , this bill expands the death penalty , which is not a deterrent , costs more to implement than life imprisonment , and runs the risk of executing the innocent .  nobody , especially the parents and victims of sexual abuse who have contacted me on this issue , should confuse my objections to this bad policy with indifference to the problem of child sex abuse in this country .  it is a huge problem , affecting millions of american children .  recent news stories prove that the registry system is n't working well .  i support aspects of this bill , including a strengthened nationwide registry for pedophiles , with strict requirements for reporting changes of address and punishments for failing to report .  i support establishing treatment programs for sex offenders in prison , background checks for foster parents , funding for computer systems to track sex crimes involving the internet , and , at last resort , procedures for committing sexually dangerous persons to secure treatment facilities .  however , i can not violate my constitutional duty to protect our independent judiciary nor can i support extreme , dangerous policies , so i will vote against this bill .  i hope that , working with the senate , we can improve this legislation and implement the policies that everyone agrees are needed without the unintended consequences of the bill in its current form .  mr. chairman , i rise today to speak in support of the children 's safety act .  this legislation will close sexual offender registration loopholes and punish offenders who do not follow the law .  sadly , every year hundreds of children are victimized by a convicted sexual offender .  convicted predators should be put in prison where they belong and kept away from our nation 's children .  the children 's safety act , h.r. 3132 , will do this .  these tougher sentences will lock up repeat offenders and help keep our children safe .  because we know the recidivism rate of sexual offenders is very high , these longer sentences are crucial to protecting our children .  we must hold these sexual offenders accountable and lock them up .  a national sex offender registry , which is one of the components of the children 's safety act , will better enable us to protect our children .  people have a right to know where sex offenders live and it is important for parents to have access to a national registry in order to make sure their children are safe .  in addition , to punishing sexual offenders and protecting our children , we must also provide services , resources and counseling to the people who are victims of these horrible crimes .  children need help healing the wounds caused by the heinous actions of sexual offenders .  we must not forget their needs .  because the needs of victims are so crucial , i along with congressman ted poe and congresswoman katherine harris have formed the victims ' rights caucus .  through the caucus we draw attention to victim issues , work to protect funding that provides victims ' services and introduce legislation to assist with victims .  we must not forget the victims of crimes , especially when they are children .  madam speaker , calling this partisan republican scheme `` bipartisan '' reminds me of those tinhorn dictators who attempt to mask their authoritarian regimes by calling their countries `` democratic .  we need an independent citizens commission like the 9/11 commission to explore the failures of every level and every branch of government .  the administration and its house republican cohorts oppose this independent citizens commission just as they opposed the 9/11 commission and just as the administration erected roadblocks to that commission 's work at every turn .  i say to them : save the stonewall to rebuild the levees .  with thousands stranded , this administration would not lead , and now it wants its buddies in the congress to lead the cover-up .  as with the formation of the 9/11 commission , if enough americans get informed and demand a genuine , independent investigation , we can end this republican charade .  our safety demands real accountability .  with such incompetence and indifference , what reason is there to believe that what we have witnessed might not happen in our own backyard , that the fate of those we saw in new orleans would not be the fate of other people , be they poor folks in the rio grande valley from hurricane , flooding or any other disaster , be it human-caused or natural or both ?  without knowing objectively what , why , and how the rescue mission failed , there is no way to ensure that the horror that we have seen would not be repeated in our own communities .  there is nothing to prevent these folks from having all of the congressional investigations , all of the budget hearings that they want to have .  what we are asking for today is that you not have a sham `` bipartisan '' commission .  you bring in the citizens from around the country and have the kind of independent inquiry that led to a best-selling book , by the 9/11 commission .  we owe it to the dead , to the displaced , to all who could become the next victims of a catastrophe to support a true and genuine , independent inquiry .  mr. speaker , following hurricane katrina there are many questions that must be answered .  to answer them this body should create a bipartisan commission of experts to investigate the failures and flaws of the system just like we did after 9/11 , which i would like to remind my colleagues led to enactment of legislation that helped this country protect itself because the process had integrity .  the enacting and recommended legislation also received bipartisan support .  the purpose of a 9/11-like independent commission is not to fix blame , but to fix a problem .  and what we are debating today is not sufficient because if it were truly bipartisan , it would be bipartisan from this point of origin .  and the beginnings of this commission , or the beginnings of this select committee , do not bode well for what was intended as a bipartisan effort by both democrats and republicans to find out & lt ; center & gt ; & lt ; pre & gt ; [ page : h8029 ] & lt ; /pre & gt ; & lt ; /center & gt ; rather than debate a bipartisan commission , what we are debating today will amount to nothing more than a whitewash because of the long list of items that my colleague from california ( mr. waxman )  just mentioned .  from the intelligence failures to the true cost of the prescription drug bill , all these missed opportunities were left purposefully and consciously , not looked into , not asked into .  if you do not think you have a problem , you will not fix a problem .  mr. speaker , hundreds have died , thousands have lost everything , billions will be spent rebuilding the infrastructure and people 's lives .  the stakes are simply too high not to know what went wrong .  look what happened today in the new york times .  michael brown , the former head of fema , talked about where the louisiana governor failed , but also talked about where secretary chertoff failed .  brown 's statement can probably be discounted somewhat as sour grapes , but recent stories by knightridder and others raised serious questions .  knightridder raised questions about whether mr. chertoff delayed the federal response .  memos were written to him , and according to a presidential directive , he had authority and control and did not act for over 36 hours and was nowhere to be found .  while everyone has blamed mr. brown , it was mr. chertoff who was responsible for managing the national response plan according to the presidential directive .  at the same time , an independent commission could monitor the contracts awarded during the reconstruction .  already a disturbing trend has emerged of awarding no-bid contracts , reconstruction contracts , to politically connected firms .  usa today points out many of these companies have been fined millions of dollars for overbilling the government during hurricane rebuilding efforts and other government projects .  in fact , one company is fined a $ 3.2 million fine for what they overcharged during hurricane hugo .  so the same cronyism that led to mr. brown 's appointment is now guiding the awarding of contracts to the rebuilding of new orleans .  we need a 9/11-type commission , an independent commission , that basically takes the facts where they lead them , has the integrity of this body and the american people and the confidence so they can recommend the changes .  because after 4 years from september 11 , what we saw and over the last 3 weeks is not the best of america in the sense of government 's response .  we saw the best of america from the american people , and we now need a commission to make sure that we finally fix our response for when a natural disaster or other type of disaster hits this country .  we need a bipartisan 9/11-style commission .  mr. speaker , i rise in strong opposition to house resolution 437 , legislation that proposes to establish a partisan committee to investigate the bush administration 's clumsy response to hurricane katrina .  this congress has a proven history of lax oversight of the administration , and i do not believe it can be trusted in this case to undertake a truly independent and probing inquiry .  like most americans , i welcomed the resignation of fema director michael brown .  he proved himself grossly under-qualified for the important job of fema chief , the key position for coordinating governmental response to domestic catastrophes .  his previous professional experience with the arabian horse association proved inadequate training for the awesome challenges any fema chief can expect to face .  mr. brown 's appointment to this critical position , when compared to his woeful qualifications , reveals a disturbing willingness to place cronyism over competence .  mr. brown 's unjustifiable appointment to fema is not the only outrage in the katrina tragedy .  president bush himself has acknowledged his own failure and that of the entire bush administration .  as the floodwaters rose and the cries went out from stranded victims , george bush seemed not to notice .  only when his handlers realized the gravity of the situation -- days after federal action could have pre-empted untold numbers of deaths -- did the president rouse himself from the vigors of ranch life and deign to respond .  this he did by cutting his five-week vacation short by two days , and dipping the wing of air force one as he jetted by .  the american people witnessed the bush administration negligent response to hurricane katrina , and they want a full account of the political and systemic shortfalls that contributed to the inept and late federal response .  that is why so many americans oppose a partisan committee like the one proposed in this legislation .  in fact , 71 percent of the public said that the proposed congressional investigation would `` get bogged down in politics '' rather than `` focusing on the facts. '' such skepticism is well-founded .  the republican majority of this congress consistently refuses to ask tough questions of the administration or hold it responsible for its misguided policies and outright dishonesty .  the congress , for example , did not probe the administration 's faulty rationale for war with iraq , unlawful disclosure of a cia agent 's identity , deceptive cost estimates for its prescription drug proposal , and unethical dealings with energy lobbyists .  having turned a collective blind eye to these wrongdoings , there is no reason to believe that congress will suddenly reverse course and put national interests above their political loyalty to president bush .  a recent poll revealed that 76 percent of americans support the creation of an independent commission akin to the one formed by congress after the september 11 terrorist attacks .  my democratic colleagues and i have proposed just such a commission to examine the conduct of the federal government , including the congress , before , during , and immediately after hurricane katrina swept through the gulf coast region .  many in washington , dc prefer a partisan inquiry into the federal government 's response to the worst disaster in a nation 's history , but my constituents have been clear : the government 's response was appalling and they want a full and independent investigation .  they want to know the truth , so that in the future , such tragedies are minimized and responded to with speed , skill , and experience .  mr. speaker , i never rise on this floor addressing the question of hurricane katrina without thanking all of the enormous outpouring from americans of charity and concern , particularly commenting on my city and my state that have welcomed now almost 245 , 000 survivors into the state of texas and now close to 100 , 000-plus in houston , in my congressional district and other congressional districts in the area .  one of the first things i did in visiting those survivors in the astrodome was to apologize on behalf of the federal government .  each meeting i subsequently went to and each time i was able to touch a survivor or hear their story of pain , i again apologized for the complete collapse and ineffectiveness of our ability to deploy in advance of hurricane katrina , to be able to be on the ground with resources whether they be the national guard or the military or fema or anyone else that might have contributed to the saving of lives or , in fact , providing the survivors with a pathway out of mississippi or alabama or new orleans .  so i accept and respect the apology and the acceptance of responsibility by the president , by the governor and anyone else who chooses to do so , because the federal government is a safety net ; and i think americans understand that .  but , mr. speaker , moving checkers on a checker board is not , in fact , a solution to our problem .  so we can not make , if you will , anew something that is broken .  the idea of a commission similar to the 9/11 commission speaks volumes for the accuracy and the responsibility that so many elected officials have spoken about .  be reminded that the 9/11 commission working in a bipartisan fashion , equal numbered in population , if you will , reflecting different views , was able to bring out the dirty laundry but also the good points .  they reminded us that one of the key elements of failure in 9/11 was the lack of interoperability .  as a member of the homeland security committee of the congress , i believe a 9/11-type commission for hurricane katrina would pay tribute to the survivors and deceased alike and provide america with the necessary truth !  mr. speaker , i thank the gentlewoman from new york for the time .  the citizens of louisiana , mississippi and alabama deserve nothing less than the citizens of new york and new jersey and connecticut , those in pennsylvania and our own pentagon who received an independent commission , one that was heralded for its results and for its independence and its ability to work together .  it served as both healing the nation and bringing people together .  the citizens of those states , the residents of the city of new orleans deserve the same as the great city of new york .  the citizens who were stranded in the superdome or in the convention center deserve nothing less than what this nation received with an independent commission .  the spouses of so many of our members , who have not been recognized at all , deserve nothing less than to make sure the efforts that have gone on already and the answers that everybody seeks are provided by an independent commission , an independent commission blessed by both the gentleman from illinois ( mr. hastert )  and the gentlewoman from california ( ms. pelosi )  , coming together in the way that we should as a country .  we all stand prepared to work together .  the citizens of louisiana and mississippi and the great city of new orleans deserve nothing less .  mr. speaker , this is a very important debate for our country .  i can not imagine anything more important to the american people than an independent investigation of why the response to hurricane katrina fell so short of expectations .  we need a full accounting of what went wrong at all levels of government so such failures do n't happen again .  i support the appointment of a non-partisan , independent commission -- modeled after the successful 9/11 commission -- to investigate the response to hurricane katrina .  an independent commission is the only way to get to the bottom of this .  the commission would look into every aspect of the preparation and response to hurricane katrina , and let the chips fall where they may .  the american people have made it clear this is what they want as well .  a new washington post/abc poll found that 76 percent of the public supports the creation of an independent commission .  the leadership of the house badly misreads the public mood when it disregards the clear wishes of the american people for a non-partisan investigation .  we need to look at our government 's weaknesses and correct them .  i oppose the straightjacket procedure under which the house is considering this legislation .  the majority calls this a `` select bipartisan committee , '' but the legislation was drafted behind closed doors with no input from democrats .  this is bipartisanship ?  the leadership of the house will not even allow democrats the opportunity to offer a substitute and have a straight up-or-down vote on it .  is the majority 's position so weak that it can not withstand a debate ?  i do n't think the american people are going to have much patience for partisanship on this issue .  they want answers and a measure of public accountability , not a partisan whitewash .  there are hard questions to be asked about the slow , disorganized , and woefully inadequate response to a natural disaster that left a major u.s. city uninhabitable .  the proposal before the house calls for a house investigation that would be completely controlled by the republican party .  republicans would outnumber democrats on the committee 11 to 9. there would be no bipartisan subpoena power .  with all due respect , this would be an investigation in name only .  it would have no credibility with the american people .  you ca n't have a comprehensive and fair investigation when the people controlling that investigation have a vested interest in the outcome .  i urge the house to reject this unfair procedure and reject the very partisan investigation it seeks to establish .  it is a select committee .  it does not have any subpoena power .  you can not subpoena anyone .  i mean , it is like , will you please come and talk with us ?  mr. speaker , let me just say this in order to clarify the whole issue on subpoenas .  in section 5 it calls for joint operations , and it comes down to the majority party .  the majority , basically , the bottom line , are the only people that can actually subpoena .  so your statement was correct , the minority view on the committee or the democratic view on the committee , if we wanted a particular individual to be subpoenaed , could not be subpoenaed if we are not in the majority to be able to do so .  of course .  and that is in section 5 of the joint operations .  but let me just say this .  if there was an equal 50-50 power on the committee , then , obviously , there would be time for compromise .  okay , if you want to subpoena this witness , we want to subpoena that witness , and let us just compromise .  even though we do not fully agree , we will get our members to vote for it .  but let me just say this .  i think that it is important for us to remember that this is not the only battle as it relates to making sure that this never , ever happens again , especially after a 9/11 bill passed through , homeland security given all this authority , fema having the resources to pre-stage the equipment and to be able to move in for it to ever happen again .  whether it is something the governor did not do in mississippi or louisiana or alabama , or something that the mayor did not do in the town , wherever it may be , gulfport , new orleans , what have you , we have to get to the bottom of it .  americans are pouring their hearts out and their money out , and we are using their taxpayer dollars to send down to the affected areas , and rightfully so , without the proper oversight and without any real congressional review .  if a member of congress wanted to go down and see exactly what the federal response was , you can not go on what we call a congressional visit , go down there on a codel .  no , you can not .  you have to find your own way down .  good luck , charlie .  you find your own way down there .  catch a bus if you can , or hitch a ride with a friend , or take money out of your own pocket and go .  i happened to get down there on the relief flight taking food and necessities down .  that is how i got into the affected area .  the american people can take it for what it is .  this is a coordinated campaign .  unfortunately , i do not believe it as a campaign , i see it preventing lives in the future from being lost .  i can not help but look at exactly what is going on .  u.s. news and world report , `` what went wrong ?  `` we will never know .  another edition , u.s. news and world report , `` who screwed up ?  `` we will never know .  newsweek , `` poverty , race , katrina , lessons of a national shame. '' we will never learn because the majority does not want to learn .  some may be saying that the 30 something working group , they are on the floor are talking about the majority party 's failings with regards to leading and this national tragedy .  this is not an issue of being partisan .  this is an issue of telling the truth .  the bottom line is we always talk about what would be different if we were in the majority .  well , the democratic leader , the gentlewoman from california ( ms. pelosi )  , recommended with the council of ranking members said , let us come back from our break and go into session and give fema what it needs to be able to respond to this national tragedy .  number one , it is a shame that fema was out of money .  what did they say ?  the house leadership said , no , we will be back ; do not worry about it .  a day later , the president got called out on it .  time was awasting .  that means maybe fema did not have what it needed to be able to respond to people stuck in the superdome and in shelters .  and in mississippi , where i went , in hancock county , they had sanctioned looting .  it was sanctioned because they had no food and no water .  it was not a situation where they said , fine , electricity is off , we do not have a lot of law and order going on , so we are going to go into this store and take things .  these are individuals who work every day .  second point , the democratic leader said we need to make sure that we have a fema director that knows what he is doing .  this one does not .  he needs to step down .  because , obviously , if he was there the day before the storm and his administration was there before the storm and they watched this come in , knowing what the national weather center has done , and i am speaking from fact .  i went down to miami , just south of my district in miami , and met with the director of the hurricane center last friday .  he was here before the committee on science this week and testified .  he told the officials that the levees would break .  a category 4 or category 5 storm , they will break , so it was not secret .  he called the mayor of new orleans on saturday night before the storm and said , mr. mayor , your levees potentially will break .  the mayor put out the order early sunday morning , mandatory evacuation .  we knew there would be massive flooding from the simulation pattern a year prior to this storm .  the officials all knew .  they knew within fema .  the state and city folks knew .  the levee board knew .  and people died .  i think it is important .  i think it is important that mike brown hung around .  the president went down and told michael brown that he was doing a good job .  mr. speaker , people died .  i am not saying that he needs to wear that on his back , but the bottom line is somebody appointed him to that position with no experience whatsoever .  it is like me leaving this room , leaving this floor and saying to the gentleman from ohio ( mr. ryan )  , well , you know , i am going to carry out open heart surgery .  i know nothing about it , but i stayed in a holiday inn express last night .  you do not get qualifications based upon we need to fill a position , not a fema position .  that played around , and finally the administration took him out under pressure , not only pressure from the democratic leader but from the media who started focusing on him , saying things were going poorly because we still do not have good leadership there .  he came back to washington , and he resigned .  then we called for this 9/11 commission-like legislation to pass to make sure that this never happens again , never happens again .  not natural disasters , we have no control over that .  that is an act of god .  but when it comes down to governance and responsibility and making sure if you are poor , middle class or wealthy in this country that this government will govern on your behalf , and that did not happen .  the response to that request was we are going to put together a select committee , we are going to make sure that there is a majority influence on it as relates to the republican leadership side , and we will not get to the bottom of what happened .  will we have a lot of show and a lot of folks getting excited in the select committee ?  i am pretty sure they will have it .  but what i am saying , independent individuals , i am talking about people who understand emergency management , individuals who understand weather , regular citizens from the affected areas .  regular citizens were on the 9/11 commission , a democratic and republican appointment , co-chairs , to look at this and professionalize our response on all levels .  that will not happen , not right now .  i think it is important that the american people , members of congress , no matter what community you represent , if you believe in making sure that people get the same representation , for us to have a 9/11 commission , and i must add and say to the gentleman from ohio ( mr. ryan )  , and we come to the floor to talk about what we should be doing and how we should be doing it or what we are doing on this side of the aisle , it is important for us to know the facts .  this is the same congress in the majority that the 9/11 families came up here , and they voted down two opportunities to set up a 9/11 commission .  this is the same congress , until it just became overbearing that there were major mistakes in our intelligence , major mistakes and flags , and they are still finding stuff because of the 9/11 commission that could have saved lives .  better yet , we came to this floor , the 9/11 bill came to the floor , and we have better intelligence , better communications between federal , local and state agencies because of their work .  it is one of the best pieces of legislation that has passed this floor .  so now the difference between the 9/11 families and what has happened down in the south is the fact that these individuals are poor , that they are still in the recovery process , and they have not been heard from yet .  they have not been heard from .  i think it is important that we give those individuals voice .  i am not saying just democrats that are concerned about individuals that are affected in affected areas .  i am talking about members of congress giving them voice to allow them to not ever go through this again and also make sure that they do not become victims when we have contractors with no restraints , no-bid contracts .  they can run the tab up to whatever they can run it up to , and then the president is going to waive davis-bacon which allow the people in the recovery process to receive minuscule wages , not what they would ordinarily get from federal procured work .  i think it is important .  the differences : a , coming back here in session , it would have happened without hesitation if democrats were in the majority .  b , michael brown would have gone to another job long before because the pressure , and there probably would have been a vote to remove the director , putting pressure on the white house to get someone more qualified .  c , we would have a 9/11-type commission appointed today to start pulling itself together to do the work and make sure this never happened began .  d , the procurement issue , it would not be an issue because there would be proper oversight .  these are very serious issues .  the only reason i am saying democratic leadership versus republican leadership , because that is exactly the direction we are going in now .  the votes that are going down here are partisan votes , not votes on behalf of what we know .  we are not talking about a truman commission or something that happened 20 or 40 something years ago .  we are talking about a 9/11 commission that is still doing its work , and it is the same administration and the same majority side in congress .  i am asking for the members of this house on both sides of the aisle and for the american people not to give up on these poor people .  that is the bottom line .  do not give up on them .  they are not giving up on us .  the american people , community after community , are taking care of the evacuees , taking care of these americans , but we need to make sure that the government that they pay taxes to , that their children are fighting in a war for , making sure that they are not left behind because they do not have the economic means to be able to come up here to washington and say we want a commission , we want it now , we want to make sure this never happens for my husband , my neighbor , for my family , for a family member or just someone who is unrepresented in this process .  mr. speaker , reclaiming my time , we have central time in the affected area , eastern time .  i know that the president is going to be on 8 o'clock central , but he is going to be on at 9 o'clock eastern .  but , obviously , he will be coming on very shortly .  but i think it is important that it is not the words he is going to share with the american people tonight .  it is the action .  we have to look at the action or the lack thereof that has been taken thus far .  flying down , reviewing the devastation , talking to families , we have to go far beyond that .  we have to make sure that members of this congress feel what we feel here on this floor tonight , having an opportunity to touch these individuals .  and i just want to say , mr. speaker , this is a picture of , i may say , very fortunate individuals .  this is a fema trailer down in hancock county , mississippi .  i am standing there talking to one of the fema part-time workers .  and there is a row of people actually behind us .  there are maybe 10 phones in this trailer .  but these individuals waited about 2 hours , and that is the short line , to get the assistance .  they say that it should be 48 hours , 72 hours when it goes into their bank account .  many of these individuals , some of them returned back because they applied 3 days earlier and they still did not receive the assistance .  but i think it is important for us to realize , mr. speaker , that he mentioned the poll about putting an independent commission together .  because it is one thing to be able to say i will do my investigation and we will make sure that this never happens again and the gentleman from ohio ( mr. ryan )  is my good friend and i am going to make sure that he did what he was supposed to do .  i do not think we are going to get down to the real truth about how we can avoid this from happening in the future , the governmental response , also making sure that the nonprofit agencies that we tie in with , that they did what they were supposed to do .  as it relates to the evacuation of poor people , there was a bill dropped down today on the democratic side of the aisle that called for a response plan , an evacuation plan for the poor , for the elderly , for the individuals that need assistance the most , because what we saw in new orleans , what we saw in louisiana , what we saw in mississippi , the individuals that were left behind were the individuals who did not know where their next $ 5 was going to come from or were waiting on their check to come in or did not have a car to get out , and it is catastrophic .  so for us to be the last standing superpower , for us to have a president that we call the leader of the free world , and for us to allow this to happen to americans is shameful .  that is not what i am saying .  that is what weekly periodicals are saying .  that is what the headlines on newspapers are saying .  that is what everyday americans are saying .  some folks say it has a lot to do with the fact that people just did not listen to us .  well , there are a lot of people who did listen , and there are a lot of people that are somewhere else , at a cousin 's house right now ; but their homes are gone .  many of them did not even have insurance because their homes were paid for or they could not afford it .  mr. speaker , the bottom line here tonight is that we can not allow business as usual or `` the establishment '' to sweep this under the carpet .  we are not saying that blood is on anyone 's hands .  we are not saying that .  what we are saying is that we can not afford for it to happen again .  that is the bottom line .  so i think , mr. speaker , before we leave here tonight , we need to make sure that we give the e-mail address out .  we need to make sure that members know on both sides of the aisle that we have a responsibility to stand for these individuals .  if somebody wants to do something , i think they need to help these individuals in the south .  they need to help these individuals who do not have the means to come to washington to organize themselves and ask for a government-sanctioned , funded independent commission to be able to make sure that someone 's husband or wife does not run out of oxygen because the levees broke and because we could not reach them and that instead they sat in their homes for 3 days and perished .  on their memory , on behalf of them , make sure that does not happen again .  like in the charity hospital where 35 or 40 folks perished because the levees broke and we could not do anything , and we come to find out that those individuals did not even drown .  they just expired .  they did not get health care .  the power ran out .  the generator was out .  all of this could have been avoided .  all of this could have been avoided with the proper oversight and governance .  so we need individuals that are professionals in this field to make sure that this never happens again .  mr. speaker , i will just go ahead and say for those individuals that felt that the resolution that we passed today was the best thing since sliced bread and they are on the plane on the way back to their districts or what have you , off for the weekend , that they did their part , now they go home and do what they have got to do in their district , that is fine .  but i think they should have a conscience , a conscience on the fact that these individuals are not getting their just due , and they are not getting represented , and they are not getting what they deserve as americans .  they are not refugees .  they are americans ; and i will tell the members right now , if we leave these individuals behind , if we leave these individuals behind , because i am going to tell the members right now i do not think the american public will allow that to happen .  i am going to be positive on this .  when one is a leader and they say , okay , we thought we did something , maybe we need to revisit this thing one more time , i think that is important .  and if one is in power to be able to make that happen , then so be it .  the 1964 civil rights act , the 1965 voting rights act never would have been if it were not for the people out in the streets making it happen .  if it were not for black and white people of goodwill saying that somebody like me can have an opportunity to come to the congress and give a special order to talk about the very individuals who can not represent themselves ; if it were not for those individuals , white and black , people in the north saying something is not right in the south and we are going to risk our lives to get the attention of the government that they pay taxes to allow them to have the kind of representation they deserve , this is far deeper than the resolution on the last day of a work week .  the last vote we take , and folks go home like it is another day at the office , i am sorry .  if these individuals had the means to be able to make the political contributions , maybe they would get the attention of the majority of the house .  i am talking about majority on both sides of the aisle .  maybe it would be different .  but all they did was they voted for representation , and they salute the same flag that we solute every day here in this house , and they deserve the representation .  i am disturbed , mr. speaker , i am disturbed , by the fact they are partisan votes that are going on the other side of the congress and in this house as though it is just another piece of legislation .  it is something we disagree on .  americans have lost their lives .  americans are displaced .  children are displaced .  people ran out of oxygen .  folks ran out of insulin .  people are wrapped up on the side of the road , and bodies are still floating ; and we leave on our way to a picnic like it is nothing .  maybe all of us have made our contributions to the best 501 ( c ) ( 3 ) or the relief effort that we wanted to .  i know i have .  but i will tell the members this : it goes far beyond that .  it goes far beyond that .  so i think the 30-something working group has to continue to do our part .  we have to continue to do our part .  mr. speaker , the gentleman is 110 percent right .  the gentleman from ohio mentioned an issue about being nonpartisan and being , i would say , third-party validators , i just want to make sure we are clear .  on the commission procedural vote here on this house floor that was voted down , for us to have this week , voted down for us to have a 9/11 kind of a commission , i believe that was today ; and yesterday , there is an article , and i will give it to the members just in case they were not watching the senate , www.sfgate.com , there is an article : `` senate kills bid for katrina commission. '' now , let me tell my colleagues something .  this is nothing that we did ; this is something that the majority did .  if they wanted to get to the bottom of it and to make sure that it never happens again and to make sure that americans do not have to watch the horror , the horror of people dying and bodies floating , not because of katrina , but because of lack of response , because the levee broke and because of a lack of administrative duties and governance on all levels ; if we do not want that to happen again , why are we not passing a 9/11 kind of commission for the people in the gulf states ?  they do not want to hear a speech .  they do not need to hear , oh , we are going to do this , that , and the other .  we are at war right now .  we have men and women right now with sand in their teeth and bombs blowing up every day around them , away from their families , some have family in the affected area .  i just want to give credit where credit is due ; some of them had an opportunity to come back and check on their families .  but let me just say , we have to go far beyond allowing business as usual .  i call on the members and the american people again not to allow this to be swept under the carpet , not to allow individuals to sit up here and set the deck because these individuals are poor .  we are better than that , and i know that we are going to do it .  mr. speaker , i want the gentleman from ohio to give our e-mail address out .  i know our hour is coming to a close .  but i will tell my colleague , i am encouraged .  i am encouraged because the american people , some 70 percent of them say they want an independent commission , and it is not a partisan issue .  those are democrats and republicans .  i am encouraged that the democratic leader , the gentleman from california ( ms. pelosi )  is willing to stand in there against the wind for what the american people believe in and not allow business as usual .  i am encouraged .  i am encouraged by the fact that people are not only praying on behalf of these individuals , but the american people have taken action on behalf of them , making sure that they have the things that they need .  throughout the country people are bringing people into their homes , so , i say that every time that we have an opportunity to come to this floor and speak as free americans in this democracy , we are going to give those individuals voice .  i am glad that there is some leadership on this floor that sees the importance in that .  well said , i say to the gentleman .  i thank my colleague for joining me in this ( special order ) this evening .  by unanimous consent , leave of absence was granted to : mr. cooper  ( at the request of ms. pelosi )  for today after 2 p.m .  mr. tanner  ( at the request of ms. pelosi )  for today on account of a family funeral .  mr. istook  ( at the request of mr. delay )  for today on account of observing relief operations from hurricane katrina .  mr. gary g. miller  of california ( at the request of mr. delay )  for today on account of illness .  mr. pickering  ( at the request of mr. delay )  for today after 12 : 30 p.m .  on account of traveling to his district with the president of the united states to survey hurricane damage .  mr. rogers  of michigan ( at the request of mr. delay )  for today on account of a family commitment .  by unanimous consent , permission to address the house , following the legislative program and any special orders heretofore entered , was granted to : madam speaker , i rise in strong opposition to this partisan resolution that spits in the face of the american people 's call for a robust inquiry that is independent of politics .  yesterday 's report by the 9/11 commission provides data to back up what every american learned by watching the government 's dismal response to hurricane katrina : that 4 years after 9/11 , our nation is still not prepared to respond to a major crisis , in this case a disaster that had been predicted , game-played in an exercise run by fema , and which we knew about 24 hours in advance .  as the relief and recovery process continues and the rebuilding process begins , the american public must have complete confidence that their government is up to the task .  unfortunately , the republicans have chosen to play politics and flaunt the will of the american people by instead proposing a select committee that is not bipartisan , that will not have an equal number of democrats and republicans , and will not have bipartisan subpoena power .  let us be honest .  how can the american people trust this congress to not only investigate this administration but also congress itself ?  because the actions of the congress are definitely one of the things that needs to be investigated .  the republican congress was responsible for cutting the budget of fema and the funding for the levees around new orleans .  an outside evaluation of congress 's actions is needed , not an internal review .  can the american public all of a sudden expect the congress to investigate this administration after 4 years of basically no congressional oversight ?  yes , the rules of the house have been used to stifle honest , robust inquiry .  this is the republican congress that has not conducted true oversight hearings into the decision to go to war in iraq , the lack of a success strategy in iraq , the outing of a cia operative , among many others .  so we can stick our heads in the sand and pretend the government has handled the recovery well and basically do nothing , or we can appoint a truly independent commission to help avoid these mistakes in the future .  the vast majority of the american public supports the establishment of an independent , bipartisan commission so that the inquiry focuses on the facts instead of getting bogged down in partisan politics .  that is why the gentleman from florida ( mr. hastings )  and i introduced legislation to establish an independent , bipartisan commission modeled after the successful 9/11 commission to investigate the government 's response to hurricane katrina and make recommendations for reforming the nation 's disaster response system .  the commission would be charged with evaluating what the government could have done to avoid the mistakes that exacerbated the crisis faced by hundreds of thousands of americans along the gulf coast and caused untold loss of life .  i mean , how is it possible , for example , that 4 years after september 11 , our local first responders still do not have interoperable communications systems that can talk with each other as they carry out their lifesaving work ?  that is why the commission would have the full authority to question the government officials , examine government documents , and hold public hearings .  finally , i want to remind my colleagues that despite overwhelming public support , it took months to overcome white house opposition and establish a 9/11 commission , basically only getting the president and the republican congress to that point by dragging them along , kicking and screaming .  we have heard all the same lame excuses we heard today as we did when we were trying to establish the 9/11 commission .  today , there is unanimous agreement that the commission had the courage to ask the tough questions that congress did not and that developed reforms that , if implemented , would make our nation safer .  that is what we need to do .  let us create an independent commission .  let us not deceive the american people through this committee that will do absolutely nothing to get to the bottom of the problem .  madam speaker , and so it continues .  this is a partisan , counterfeit commission if i have ever seen one proposed today , and i have two simple questions : will the administration escape accountability again ?  and the second question is this : will the administration get away with another failure ?  please note the word `` escape '' .  in fact , if you look in the bible , the old testament , leviticus , chapter 16 , verse 8 , we find the origin , the etymology of the word scapegoat , the goat that departs .  in scripture , you had two goats .  one was sacrificed for our sins ; the other escaped , was let go .  that is from the english word scapen , the old english , a form of escape .  so , brownie , he was sacrificed , and yesterday all of his minions resigned , all of these people that were hired .  we better have an objective review of what happened .  we better have an objective view , or else we are never going to get to the truth .  this is the most redactive , the most secretive administration in the history of the united states .  it has nothing to do with political partisanship either .  none whatsoever .  we have seen it repeatedly .  this is the administration that can show negligence , ineptitude , and dangerous arrogance without ever enduring the burden of even limited liability .  policy disasters abound , yet culpability is never encountered .  no one who has followed the workings of this body believes that a commission made up of apologists will ever hold the administration accountable for anything .  this is far too important for business as usual .  i implore my colleagues to vote against the bill , to demand the creation of a truly independent commission .  it worked 4 years ago .  it will work now .  i do not think there is anything wrong with this .  and when you talk about the ability to subpoena , the majority will have the right to oversee whether we can subpoena particular people .  this is phony .  all we ask for is to let us come together .  we agree we need to send help down there .  we are doing our best , both sides of the aisle .  let us have an independent review of what has happened and what is going on .  we are talking about people 's lives here .  mr. speaker , i thank the gentlewoman for yielding me time .  my heart and the hearts of those i represent are with all who have been devastated by hurricane katrina .  we know a bit about what it is like to have devastating loss in a flood .  the city of grand forks flooded in 1997 .  fifty-seven thousand people were evacuated , but the federal response was immediate and lives were saved .  here , the federal response failed and lives were lost .  we need to know why .  this is about learning what happened so it never happens again ; and no republican controlled , no congressional , partisan hearing process could ever get to the bottom of it .  we need an independent commission .  it literally is a matter of life and death , no partisan whitewash .  we need an independent commission so we learn what happened so it never happens again .  lives are at stake .  mr. speaker , i think my colleague is exactly right .  what happened here today , h. res. 437 , is a tragedy .  what happened right here on this floor today is a tragedy for the exact reason the gentleman just mentioned .  now , for those people who are at home and who may not completely understand the whole situation , this body is run by the majority party , which is the republican party .  and the majority party appoints to the committees members to the committee on ways and means , the committee on appropriations , the house homeland security committee , the subcommittee on foreign operations , export financing , and related programs , and all these different committees and subcommittees .  the majority appoints more people to the committee than the minority , so they basically control the committee process in the house of representatives .  now , some committees have subpoena powers and they can subpoena witnesses .  but they will only subpoena witnesses that the majority party wants to subpoena .  if the minority party would want to subpoena somebody , they could not because they could not get the power out of the committee without majority party votes .  so the majority rules .  what is happening in this congress and in the house and in the senate is that the republican party controls both chambers .  so the democrats in the minority have no subpoena power .  and what has happened over the past few years here , and the great example is the later clinton years , with ken starr , with the house committee on government reform , the republican party that controlled this chamber , they were the ones conducting the investigation into president clinton because they had the subpoena power and they had the opportunity to do it .  so what we were trying to say , what the minority party was trying to say , the democrats were trying to say with h. res. 437 , is this select committee that will oversee and look at how the screwups went about down in the gulf coast should be equal .  it should be democrats and republicans both having equal subpoena power to oversee the process , because the record for the majority party over the past few years has been atrocious .  now , let us look at a couple of things .  we have talked here many , many times regarding the war , with the weapons of mass destruction , all the prewar intelligence .  has anybody looked into this in a real way , in depth ?  subpoenaed witnesses ?  anybody ?  no .  has anybody been fired ?  no .  how about the medicare bill that we passed at 3 in the morning .  everyone was told here it was $ 400 billion .  it ends up being 700 or $ 800 billion after we already voted for it .  this majority party does not have the credibility , i say to my colleague , the credibility to oversee what is going on here because they are going to do nothing but whitewash this thing .  get out the brillo pads because we are going to scrub this thing clean , and nothing is going to happen and the country is going to be worse off for it .  so , my colleagues , h. res. 437 is a joke .  it is a joke .  and there will not be proper investigation .  i just could not believe the debate on the floor today .  the gentleman from mississippi ( mr. taylor )  , a democrat who lost his home , for god 's sake , was here .  he is saying , should he not , as a representative of a state in a congressional district that lost lives and homes and property and everything else , should he not be able to subpoena somebody , just like every other member of congress , if i am on that committee ?  or should the democrats , who many lost constituents of the 700-some that we lost , and some of those people were actually represented by democrats , should the minority party not have the opportunity to subpoena somebody ?  but , no , this thing is going to get scrubbed .  where is the transparency ?  where is the equal opportunity ?  where is the bipartisanship ?  what this bill says is there is going to be nine democrats and 11 republicans .  there is not even subpoena power .  this thing is a paper tiger .  it is going to be a song and dance .  so let us get ready .  get out the music and the popcorn because this is going to be nothing but a dog and pony show .  i do not think anything is going to happen here , and it is going to be consistent with a lot of the other pieces of legislation that either came through this body or did not get reviewed .  so i just want to say to my colleague from florida how disappointed i am , how disappointed the democrats are , and i encourage the gentlewoman from california ( ms. pelosi )  , our minority leader , to continue her stance and not appoint anybody to this committee .  this is a toothless tiger .  it is a washing machine to clean up this mess politically .  i hope that our leader stands her ground and our leadership and our party stand their ground and just say that this is a joke and to appoint people to this committee would literally be contributing to the problem and lending our credibility to this issue , which i think is a joke .  unless the majority wanted to help us .  everybody knew .  mr. speaker , the washington post reported , just to support the gentleman 's argument , five of the eight top federal management agency officials came to their posts with virtually no experience in handling disasters and now lead an agency whose ranks of seasoned crisis managers have thinned dramatically since 9/11 .  five of the top eight fema people had no emergency management experience at all .  what did we think would happen if we had this kind of tragedy ?  i still say it had a lot to do with the number of electoral votes in louisiana and mississippi than anything else .  because if it was florida , with all due respect , they would have been there with billions of dollars prior to .  if it was an election year , everybody would be down there , and the president 's brother would be running around campaigning .  i think it is terrible that we have this kind of cronyism going on .  we understand .  we are not simpletons .  we know that a president appoints his friends who make a lot of donations to posts in the executive branch .  we know that .  that is how it goes .  but to appoint these people to fema ?  during a rise in hurricanes ?  come on .  it is irresponsible .  as far as the committee goes , as far as having a committee , cnn gallup poll taken a few days ago , 70 percent of the american people supported an independent panel to investigate our response to hurricane katrina .  that is 70 percent of the american people , 70 percent of those responding .  i think it is important for this body to recognize that this toothless tiger , this paper tiger that we passed today , h. res. 437 , is not what the american people want .  they want an independent investigation , bipartisan , equal power among both parties to investigate it so there is no coverups , no whitewashing going on .  that is what the american people want .  mr. speaker , i would like to start talking about something that i think is very important .  we are going to do this .  this country is going to make sure that we rebuild .  the problem that we were talking about with the administration is a big hurdle for us .  the money is another hurdle .  i can not believe that with all of the challenges that we have right now in this country that this president can not go to the wealthiest americans , his top campaign contributors , and ask them to give back just a wee little bit of their tax cut that they got over the past 4 or 5 years , just a wee little bit to help us fund hurricane katrina , to help us fund the war .  we are giving millionaires hundreds of thousands of dollars back , and our deficit is ballooning .  now , today , it is reporting we are going to need another $ 50 billion to keep the war fund going .  we are already hundreds of billions of dollars into the war , and now we have hurricane katrina .  hindsight is 20-20 , but you do not get into elective wars that bog you down because you just never know what is going to happen .  we do not overextend ourselves , because we do not know when a katrina is going to happen , when a national tragedy is going to happen .  that is prudent leadership .  and now we are running budget deficits as far as the eye can see .  we are borrowing the money from the chinese and the japanese .  we are giving our country away , and we have got to pay interest on it .  and one would think , and i hope , as the president is talking right now , that somewhere in his speech he has the guts to ask the wealthiest people in the country to help us here because we need help .  i ask the president to take the leadership role that the american people have given him and have the guts to ask the wealthiest people in the nation to help us rebuild the gulf coast , to help us fund this elective war that he got us into .  we pay them back .  they have got their tax cuts .  we do not even have to take all of them back .  we just need a few hundred billion dollars to pay for the war and to pay for katrina .  have the guts to ask them for it .  if they are in the health care industry , i am sure they are doing okay .  if they are in the oil industry , i am sure they are doing just fine .  record profits as far as the eye can see in the oil industry .  the greatest quarterly profits , billions and billions and billions of dollars for bp and a lot of these so i think as much as we are talking about restructuring and trying to figure out what we are going to do and how we are going to make the government run more efficiently and how we are going to take care of fema and fix the problems that we have been talking about here the past few weeks , a component of that is what are we going to do with our budget deficit .  because , again , this was something we have been talking about with the 30-somethings for months and months and years even now .  so i ask the president to please ask these people to contribute .  they are the only ones doing really well in the country right now .  ask them to help out .  i am sure in the gentleman from florida 's ( mr. meek )  district , as in my mine , people who do not have a lot of disposable income are the ones bringing the canned goods .  and i am not saying that the wealthy people are not doing it .  of course they are .  but right now our government needs funds , and we need the wealthiest in the country to contribute .  and we have got to have a president that is willing to ask them to help out .  and to see the disparity between those who have and those who do not highlighted through this whole tragedy , i think , really is a call for all of us in public office , especially those in high-ranking leadership positions , like the president , to make the proper request ; and we need to ask those who have been doing very well to contribute to this fund .  mr. speaker , if the gentleman will continue to yield , he highlighted a point .  this outfit that is in the executive branch right now , it is all politics .  it is all politics all the time .  it is not about policy .  it is all about politics and trying to keep the republicans in the majority .  and i think when we see that five out of eight of the top appointments at fema are political hacks , i think when we look at passing a drug bill that does not have any cost controls for the drugs , does not allow for reimportation , all politics all the time .  weapons of mass destruction , go through all the war information we had before , all politics all the time .  how do we sell this to the american people ?  whether it is true or not , irrelevant .  we need to go to war , and we are going to say whatever we have to say to get it done .  now , as the gentleman mentioned earlier , talking about davis-bacon , davis and bacon were two republican members of congress who passed a prevailing wage law that allows for when federal money is being spent in a certain area that the feds will pay the prevailing wage of that area for the workers .  because if they are paying federal money , then they should obviously be paying for whatever the going rate is in that area .  so what the president did was he repealed the prevailing wage provision , basically saying that we are not going to have any oversight over the contractors .  we are going to send them billions of dollars .  halliburton is going to get their money .  we are going to pay them whatever we have got to pay them , $ 50 billion , $ 100 billion without any oversight from a bipartisan commission here ; and at the same time as we are not overseeing what the contractors are doing .  we are going to repeal the basic provision that allows for workers to at least make a decent wage in that area .  and today in the hill newspaper , these gentlemen from americans for tax reform are saying that this repeal will make it obvious that davis-bacon is nothing but dead weight .  so here these guys are wasting all of their time , all their energy on putting the screws to the workers , guys in new orleans that are now living in baton rouge or in mississippi or in houston who want to go back home and help rebuild their community and make the going rate in their community , the prevailing wage in their community , and these guys are wasting all their time and energy trying to screw them to the wall instead of overlooking and seeing what halliburton is doing .  we are using the same administrative process with the reconstruction of katrina as we have been using in the war , which wasted billions of dollars , no oversight of halliburton , no oversight of all of these people who make tremendous contributions back to the president ; and to have the audacity , with the great human tragedy that is there and the human suffering there , to say that you are going to waste your time and your energy making sure the workers do not get their fair share because that is dead weight , that is wasteful government spending .  these are the people who are going to go back and be able to actually do some work .  it is tremendous .  it is unbelievable .  it is all politics all the time with these guys , and this is just one more component of that .  they want to get rid of the unions , they want to get rid of prevailing wage .  this one gentleman in here , he says something along the lines of it is a waste of money because the federal money will go to the worker and if it is a union worker , the union worker will pay union dues per hourly wage .  you have to be kidding me .  these union workers pay like 5 cents an hour to go for the union dues , 10 cents an hour , it depends on what union you are in .  but to say that this is somehow going to bankrupt the government by paying a gentleman mr. speaker , i am going to make a prediction .  the hour is late , but i am going to make a prediction .  the american people will not allow , will not allow the republican party to get away with having another white wash .  they are not going to allow them to scrub this up and cover this up and clean it up without having proper oversight .  seventy percent of the people in this country want an independent commission to look at this , or a bipartisan commission to look at this .  and i think until that happens , the republican party will continue to get pressure from the american people .  i think the gentlewoman from california ( ms. pelosi )  is going to stand strong .  and , quite frankly , again , we should not appoint anybody to this commission .  eleven republicans , nine democrats , we do not have an ounce of power on this thing , and we will get slammed just like we do every day down here , and the end result will be a fema that continues to be inept and inadequate in its response to natural disasters .  so i say that the american people , that 70 percent of them who want this independent commission will not let this go , will not let the corruption and the cronyism continue .  mr. speaker , 30somethingdems @ mail.house.gov. , send us an e-mail .  we will be back here next week for a couple more nights and keep hammering away .  we are not going to let go until we get the kind of commission that the american people want , that is only fair , and that will best fix the problems that we have in fema right now , because it will have proper oversight .  madam speaker , i yield myself such time as i may consume .  madam speaker , high talk from the majority follows the abysmally low performance of the federal organizations that they oversee and that our people trusted to protect them in their hour of need .  and today we are told it is our constitutional duty to find out why the government was so unable to protect life here at home during and after hurricane katrina .  i would like to remind our friends on the other side that one of our constitutional duties as representatives of the will of the people is actually to represent the will of the people of the united states .  so let the record show that as of today , according to the republican leadership , the will of the american people no longer matters .  the fact that 76 percent of the citizens of our nation want an independent commission to investigate the katrina disaster does not mean a thing .  the fact that over 60 percent of republicans want an independent commission does not register with them either .  apparently , the people of the united states are to be patted on the head and told , do not worry .  we will find out what happened here .  the fact that thousands of men , women , and children are dead ; the fact that hundreds of thousands more have become evacuees in the richest country in the world shows that we do not have everything under control .  the fact that we cut corners and underfunded those responsible for maintaining the levees that protected new orleans by tens of millions of dollars only so that later thousands of lives would be needlessly lost , tens of billions of dollars would have to be spent cleaning up the mess left behind shows that we do not have anything under control .  that is really a case of being penny wise and pound foolish .  and now , to show how seriously it takes its constitutional responsibility to get the government back on track , to show that it is not interested solely in rhetoric but also in results , the majority has seen fit to create a partisan political body , which we all know will care more about the political survival of the leadership than the actual survival of the people .  how do we know this ?  because the committee put forth by the majority is intentionally designed to be partisan .  it has a republican majority .  it includes subpoena power controlled by the majority .  and the scope of the investigation will be the whim of the leadership of the majority .  the idea of having a truly bipartisan commission to investigate the tragedy was never seriously entertained .  if it was , joint subpoena power would exist in this bill , as would joint control of the committee 's operation , scope , and direction .  instead of this , platitudes promising cooperation and shared power have filled this hall , leaving no room for a resolution calling for either a truly bipartisan committee or , what would be infinitely better , the creation of an independent commission which will actually eliminate politics from what will otherwise be an incredibly politicized investigation .  all of this is obvious to nearly every observer , and yet the leadership tells the democrats if we are objecting to their republican-first agenda , we , the members of the minority , are being partisan .  apparently , in the wake of disaster comes hypocrisy .  along with its assurances of a fair and honest investigation of the failures of the federal response to katrina , assurances which are the product of wishful thinking as opposed to a sincere review of recent history , the majority puts forth empty arguments in favor of this bill .  we created the department of homeland security and fema , so only we can investigate it , they argue .  that means that this leadership also helped to create the systemic problems which caused dhs and fema to fail .  what exactly is their incentive to publicize their lack of vision and errors in judgment ?  as the gentleman from california ( mr. george miller )  said earlier today , it would be like nominating enron to investigate stock fraud because they helped to perfect it , and it would not make much sense .  but the gentleman from california ( mr. dreier )  told us this morning that none of this matters .  it would be absurd , he says , to think that any member of this body would not want to get to the bottom of the failures .  madam speaker , more absurd things happen in this house all the time .  for example , some might say that appointing a man with absolutely no experience in emergency management to head the federal emergency management association was absurd , and yet nobody challenged that appointment until it was far too late .  madam speaker , i do not mean to say that the chairman and his colleagues do not care about improving our national preparedness for a future emergency , because i know that they do ; but the fact that political pressures have in the past and will again in the future distort and in some cases destroy investigations of government failings when the investigations are carried out by us , this is so obvious that it should be beyond question .  the only real question left before us today is why does the majority find an independent commission to investigate the tragedy so objectionable ?  would any of them like to claim here that the 9/11 commission was a mistake ?  they all voted for it .  should we reject the findings of that body ?  should we here and now state that because it was not run by those managing the government on september 11 , 2001 , for that reason , what it discovered was illegitimate ?  is there anyone here who would like to state for the record that the creation of the 9/11 commission was an abdication and denial of our constitutional responsibility as members of the house of representatives ?  not one member of this body would make such a claim , and yet the majority makes this claim about the creation of a similar body to investigate what happened on the gulf coast .  there is only one explanation for it .  dare i say this absurd stance is control .  the majority wants to keep the investigation under its control so it can make sure that the answers that the committee produces toe the party line .  thinking about crass political considerations when americans are dying and are homeless , that , and only that , is an abdication of our constitutional responsibilities as members of this congress .  madam speaker , i reserve the balance of my time .  mr. speaker , i rise in strong opposition to h. res. 437 , which would establish a partisan committee to investigate the hurricane katrina preparation and response .  i agree with the vast majority of the american people , who favor an independent commission of experts similar to the 9/11 commission .  perhaps the american people , like me , are skeptical of the investigative integrity of the republican majority .  after all , these are the same people who took more than 140 hours of testimony to investigate whether the clinton white house misused its holiday card database but less than five hours of testimony about prisoner abuse in iraq .  the downing street memo has sent shockwaves through the world and confirmed our worst fears about the iraq war sham , but mum 's the word from republicans in congress .  you also wo n't find a single committee hearing about valerie plame , no-bid halliburton contracts , or u.s. citizens being imprisoned without a trial .  however , now they say that we should trust them to do a thorough investigation and not hide any damaging evidence regarding the woefully inadequate response to katrina .  given their history , i think the american people deserve better than an empty promise .  it is an insult to the thousands of dead , the victims of rape at the convention center , the people who waited five days for buses that never came and so many others who suffered needlessly , to suggest that one year before an election , this republican congress is going to pursue indictments not only of their president , but of themselves .  after all , the senior members of congress who would populate this committee are the same ones who advocated moving fema into the homeland security department , zealously pursued the downsizing of disaster prevention and response programs , starved wetlands restoration and army corps of engineers funding , and presided over rising poverty rates that make americans all the more vulnerable .  these foxes have already systematically dismantled the henhouse , sat idly by while the hens suffered , and now want to appoint a committee of foxes to find out what went wrong .  i vote no on this ridiculous proposal .  madam speaker , i recently heard the gentleman who represents hollywood speaking about how it is somehow fair that the only member of this body that i know of who was there on ground zero , who rode with the national guard to distribute food because fema so thoroughly screwed up , who realizes that if it were not for the united states military doing fema 's job for them , people would have starved to death , people would have died of dehydration , hospitals would not have gotten needed medical supplies , that i will not be allowed to subpoena witnesses .  so as a member of this body who was elected by as good a margin as anyone else here , i do object that i could not ask for a witness , that i could not subpoena a witness to deliver the message that needs to be delivered about the lessons learned in mississippi .  we do not need to make the same mistakes when the next hurricane hits .  the bottom line is fema did make horrible mistakes that came very close to costing people their lives .  fema could have avoided millions of dollars in unnecessary aerial replenishment of people that we could get trucks to , because they insisted on one point of delivery in a county where very few people still had cars that were running and those that had cars that ran could not get gasoline .  fema could have sent thousands of people on their way to their families in other parts of the state , but did not bring gasoline in for them .  there are a number of mistakes that we never need to make again as a nation .  and i would hope that i would have the opportunity to subpoena some of the people that need to speak on this .  it does not need to be bush-bashing ; it does not need to be anybody-bashing .  it needs to be an honest account of what happened .  but how can we do that when one of the people that was at ground zero can not ask questions of witnesses , can not subpoena witnesses ?  is that really fair ?  does that really get to the solution of the problem ?  i do not think so .  i think our nation works best when we work together , and a 9/11-type commission composed of whoever needs to be subpoenaed is what we need to do .  at the end of the day , i am going to vote for a commission no matter how bad , because something is better than nothing ; but the american people deserve for us to do it right .  madam speaker , given the gentleman 's desire to see that we get to the bottom of this , given that the gentleman is elected by a majority of the people from california , and given that i am elected by a majority of people in the most affected area , does the gentleman not think it would be fair that i would have the same right , as someone from the affected area , to subpoena witnesses as the gentleman from the west coast of this country would have ?  mr. speaker , i want to address the house on this subject that is before us today .  i have served in the congress for 30 years , the first 19 in the majority , the last 11 in the minority , so i have seen life from both sides .  and let me tell you , today is one of the low moments .  we have just experienced a national tragedy that has caused immeasurable pain to countless americans , and yet here in the house of representatives , nothing seems to have changed .  the house is not rising above raw partisanship even in a time of national tragedy .  republicans are saying , well , we should just trust them because they have created something they are calling bipartisan .  well , the right way to create something that is bipartisan is for the two parties to talk .  instead , the republicans met among themselves without talking to the democrats and have proposed this select committee on a take-it-or-leave-it basis .  the majority can not define bipartisanship for the minority .  the majority has to make the real effort and be willing to do some work , maybe hard work with the minority to achieve bipartisanship .  well , why are we suspicious ?  they did not talk to us .  the committees in the house and the senate that have oversight jurisdiction were starting to hold hearings and suddenly the republican leadership said , well , we are going to have a house-senate committee .  and suddenly it is not a house-senate committee ; it is a select committee .  well , look at the record how republicans have done oversight .  have we really looked at how the white house used the intelligence , as faulty as it was , that was the basis for going to war in iraq ?  no , we have not had hearings on that .  we have not looked at that .  has the house looked at the question of the outing of a cia agent by people in the white house in order to punish her husband who was critical of the iraq war ?  no , no hearings on that .  the actuary working for this administration withheld from congress on the costs of the medicare prescription drug bill .  should we not try to find out what happened ?  both republicans and democrats were denied the facts before we voted on the bill .  no , nothing on that .  we had more hearings when the republicans were in charge and there was a democratic administration on whether president clinton misused his christmas card list for political purposes .  that meant 7 or 8 days of hearings .  but we can not get hearings on these important subjects .  and now we are told there is a bipartisan committee , a select committee , that is going to look into this matter .  well , if you really wanted bipartisanship , i say to my republican friends who run the house , you need to at least talk to the democrats and make an effort .  but when you do not make an effort and you have a record of abusing the power that you have in running this institution and ignoring the oversight responsibilities on really important matters in order to protect a republican administration from possible embarrassment , we have no confidence whatsoever that we are going to get to the facts of what went wrong in dealing with hurricane katrina .  we need to rise above this raw partisanship and join together , if not on an independent commission which i think makes the most sense , at least on a committee that is equally divided , with the powers equally divided , where the intent is to work together .  but we looked at what is being proposed , and the only conclusion that many of us can reach is that this is going to be a committee to pretend to do an investigation but not find out the truth .  madam speaker , i rise today in strong support of h.r. 483 , the garza-vela united states courthouse designation act , offered by my colleague and my good friend , the gentleman from texas ( mr. ortiz )  .  this bill pays tribute to two great americans , federal judge reynaldo garza and federal judge filemon vela who were judicial legends in the great state of texas .  judge garza was the nation 's first mexican american federal district judge appointed to the federal bench by president kennedy in 1961 .  this outstanding man had done advanced study in the field of law and was a great orator .  judge garza served our nation through the turbulent years of the civil rights movement .  his decisions contributed to the changes that opened up many opportunities for minorities .  in 1976 president carter asked him to serve as the nation 's attorney general , but he declined because he did not want to leave his beloved south texas and his service on the federal bench .  he did , however , accept an appointment to the 5th court of appeals by president carter and for many years commuted back and forth between south texas and the circuit court in new orleans .  in 1982 he obtained senior status ; and even after his retirement , he remained active by filling in on the bench whenever he was needed .  he was committed to education , particularly in encouraging literacy ; and he was known and highly respected by everyone for the even-handed way in which he dispensed justice .  i served 1 year as foreman of a federal grand jury which he appointed in his district court in brownsville , texas .  it was a privilege and a pleasure to work with him and meet in his chamber where i witnessed firsthand the honesty , the integrity , and compassion of this gentleman from south texas .  his last official act took place from his hospital bed when he officiated the swearing in of his protege , federal judge ricardo h. hinojosa , as the new chairman of the federal sentencing commission .  judge vela was nominated to the federal bench by president carter in 1980 .  he became an expert on comparative american and mexican law .  during his tenure , the federal docket dramatically increased due to the enormous population growth in south texas .  yet despite the heavy case load , judge vela fought to ensure that every person received prompt and fair treatment .  he worked tirelessly to design and have built the new courthouse in brownsville .  it is indeed fitting that his name will be on this new federal courthouse .  judge vela , like his good friend judge garza , was known for his impeccable integrity and his willingness to mentor young attorneys .  he also was passionate about teaching children about the law and the criminal justice system in order to encourage them to make right choices of life .  he would bring inmates to school auditorium programs to tell children about the mistakes they had made and the consequences they suffered as a result .  judge vela had one of the longest running and most successful radio programs on legal subjects which was broadcast in spanish to more than 2 million listeners in south texas and northern mexico .  he also participated in 220 spanish radio programs entitled `` enriquezca su vida , termine sus estudios , '' meaning `` enrich your life , complete your studies , '' that focused on encouraging children to stay in school and off drugs .  he was tireless when it came to community involvement and showing compassion for low-income families .  i am proud to have called him my second cousin .  he gave countless hours as a mentor and leader to youth programs whether as an attorney for the cameron county child welfare department , as founder of the esperanza home for boys , or as the chair of the board of rio grande marine institute home for youth .  we lost both of these great men last year , but their service to the people of texas and to this great nation must not be forgotten .  i urge my colleagues to support this legislation that provides a fitting tribute to these two great americans .  madam speaker , i yield myself such time as i may consume .  madam speaker , i join with the gentleman from brownsville , texas ( mr. ortiz )  , in supporting h.r. 483 , a bill to name the courthouse in brownsville , texas , as the reynaldo g. garza-filemon b. vela united states courthouse .  madam speaker , this bill honors the life and works of two extraordinary mexican americans .  the first honoree , judge reynaldo garza , was born in brownsville in 1915 .  he graduated from local elementary schools as well as brownsville high school .  after graduating from brownsville junior college , he attended the university of texas where he received the combined degrees of bachelor of arts and bachelor of law .  judge garza served his country during world war ii in the air force .  after the war he returned to brownsville to practice law .  in 1961 president kennedy appointed judge garza to the district court for the southern district of texas .  in 1979 president carter appointed him to the united states court of appeals for the 5th circuit .  in addition to his judicial duties , judge garza has long been interested in education issues .  he served former governors john connally and mark white on commissions to improve the quality of education in texas .  judge garza recognized the importance of education in judicial proceedings and his concern for uneducated men at the mercy of unscrupulous people .  judge garza was very active in his church and has served the knights of columbus in the brownsville area for many years .  pope pius xii twice decorated judge garza for his work on behalf of public charities .  in 1989 judge garza was honored by the university of texas with a distinguished alumnus award .  his record of public service includes the work with the rotary club , the latin-american relation committee in brownsville , trustee at his law school , advisory council for the boy scouts , and he was elected as the city commissioner for the city of brownsville .  it is fitting and proper to honor judge garza 's outstanding , rich life , his commitment to excellence and his numerous public contributions .  the second honoree , madam speaker , judge filemon vela , was also a native texan and a veteran of the united states army .  he attended texas southmost college and the university of texas .  his law degree is from st .  mary 's school of law in san antonio .  judge vela served as a commissioner of the city of brownsville .  he was a member of the judges advisory committee to the u.s. sentencing commission .  judge vela is a former law instructor and an attorney for the cameron county child welfare department .  his civic activities including being the charter president for the esperanza home for boys and the co-sponsor of the spanish radio program `` enrich your life , complete your studies. '' judge vela 's other civic activities include membership on the independent school district task force and membership in the general assembly of the texas catholic conference .  he is also an active member of the lions club .  judge vela was nominated by president carter for the federal bench and was confirmed by the united states senate in 1980 .  judge vela 's career is filled with successes , commitment to his family , devotion to his religion and his church , love for his work and respect for his colleagues .  it is most fitting to honor judge vela with this designation .  i join the gentleman from texas ( mr. ortiz )  in supporting h.r. 483 .  madam speaker , i reserve the balance of my time .  madam speaker , i rise in strong support of h.r. 483 , a bill to honor two members of the united states judiciary .  the bill would designate the federal courthouse located in brownsville , texas as the reynaldo g. garza and the filemon b. vela united states courthouse .  i 'd like to recognize the gentleman from texas , congressman ortiz , for introducing this bill .  the gentleman introduced this same legislation in the 108th congress , which passed the house last september .  unfortunately , the other body did not act on that bill .  i am hopeful that with our passage of the bill today , the senate will take quick action on it .  these two jurists displayed the very finest in legal scholarship .  judges garza and vela have contributed several decades of legal excellence to the judicial system of the united states .  in addition , both these gentlemen have made substantial contributions , through extensive volunteer efforts , to the well being of their communities .  judge reynaldo garza was appointed by president kennedy to the federal bench and was the first hispanic federal judge .  after serving in the federal district court , judge garza was appointed to the u.s. court of appeals for the fifth circuit .  he also served on the brownsville independent school board , the texas educational standards committee , and the select committee on higher education .  when judge garza was appointed to the fifth circuit , judge filemon vela succeeded him on the u.s. district court for the southern district of texas in brownsville .  judge vela had a history of service to the community of south texas .  he worked closely with the esperanza home for boys , and headed numerous local activities to encourage young people to stay in school .  he was an active member of the texas conference of churches and was former district chairman of the boys scouts of america .  judges garza and vela were active members in numerous civic organizations including the texas bar association , and the united states sentencing commission , brownsville rotary club , the latin american relations committee , and the brownsville chamber of commerce .  they were beloved and revered members of the mexican-american community , the judicial community , and the city of brownsville .  judges garza and vela were outstanding jurists and good friends .  this designation is a fitting tribute to their distinguished public and civic careers of two remarkable texans and i urge its adoption .  madam speaker , i thank the gentleman for yielding me time .  i think the gentleman has done a great job in describing the contributions of two great giants from south texas .  i want to thank the gentleman from alaska ( mr. young )  and the gentleman from west virginia ( mr. mollohan )  and the gentleman from pennsylvania ( mr. shuster )  and all those involved who helped expedite this bill .  this is not the first time this bill has been before the house .  it has passed two or three times , but it has stalled in the senate .  this bill would rename the brownsville courthouse for two legislative giants from south texas .  this bill will rename the courthouse the reynaldo g. garza and the filemon b. vela united states courthouse .  we have a wealth of riches in south texas , including these two giants of men .  reynaldo garza was the first hispanic appointed to the federal bench by president john f. kennedy in 1961 and judge filemon vela was appointed to the federal bench by president jimmy carter back in 1980 .  both of these men have become legends in the south texas area by virtue of their commitment to education and to our community .  both heroes passed away last year .  this legislation is noncontroversial , and i hope the senate will quickly consider and pass this as well .  i thank the house and my friends for helping expedite this bill again to get to the floor .  madam speaker , it is rate that a man has a chance to known his heros .  it is even rarer for a man to be able to stand shoulder to shoulder with his heros as a fellow community leader .  while serving as border patrol sector chief for the mcallen , texas sector , however , i had that chance .  today , we are remembering the lives and groundgreaking achievements of the late judges reynaldo guerra garza and filemon vela and inscribing the u.s. courthouse in brownsville with their names .  like me , judge garza came from a humble background , from a family whose parents were born in mexico and came to this country in search of opportunity for their children .  he rose to preside over one of the highest courts in the land , in the process becoming the first mexican-american federal district judge and rendering some of the most important civil rights decisions in this country 's history .  judge garza ended his career on the prestigious fifth circuit of the u.s. court of appeals .  judge vela , much like judge garza , grew up of modest means in south texas .  he is remembered as a hard-working and committed judge whose impact was felt not only in the courtroom , but in the community as well .  perhaps the essential message for me to convey here , however , is that each of these men spent considerable time and effort emphasizing the incredible power of education .  both judges garza and vela understood how education could transform the lives of young people , because they and their families had benefited greatly from it .  madam speaker , i urge all of my colleagues to support this legislation naming the courthouse in brownsville , texas after reynaldo g. garza and filemon b. vela -- two great judges , great role models , and great men .  yes , mr. speaker .  mr. speaker , as a member of the committee on government reform , i am pleased to join my colleagues in consideration of h.r. 438 , legislation naming a postal facility in berkeley , california , after maudelle shirek .  this measure was introduced by the gentlewoman from california ( ms. lee )  on february 1 , 2005 .  maudelle shirek , the granddaughter of slaves , was born in jefferson , arkansas , before moving to the bay area over 60 years ago .  she became an activist and a community leader .  certainly emblematic of her community , ms. shirek has spent a lifetime fighting against injustice , poverty , and housing discrimination .  she is now 94 years old .  in the 1960s and 1970s , she was active in the anti-war movement .  she founded two senior centers , was one of the first elected officials to address the aids epidemic , and helped organize the `` free mandela movement. '' a well-known and outspoken former member of the berkeley city council and former berkeley vice mayor , maudelle shirek was instrumental in encouraging former congressman ron v. dellums to enter politics and has served as a role model for many people in the community , especially the gentlewoman from california ( ms. lee )  .  earlier this year the young adult project 2005 , black history month celebration honored maudelle shirek 's `` life , legacy and service. '' mr. speaker , i commend the gentlewoman from california ( ms. lee )  for seeking to honor her constituent in her community , a former member of the city council , in this manner and urge swift passage of this measure .  mr. speaker , i yield myself 13 minutes .  mr. speaker , i do not know quite what to say about this continuing resolution .  i have a lot of notes here , most of which i will not use , but let me simply note that this is another case of the failure to effectively govern by the republican president and the republican majority in this congress .  we are here facing an end of the fiscal year situation 3 days from now .  we have failed in the basic test of governing , and i think it is important to understand why .  throughout the year , we on the democratic side of the aisle , in the minority , have worked with the majority on every possible procedural issue and cooperated with them procedurally at every juncture so that we could enable this house to pass the 10 appropriation bills that are necessary to pass , even though we disagreed in most instances with the content of those bills .  when i was asked by numerous members of my caucus and a number of members of the press why we were cooperating procedurally when we opposed the substance of many of the bills , i made it clear .  i said we were cooperating because i wanted the record to show at the end of the year , when the republican majority failed to pass its appropriation bills by the end of the year , i wanted the record to show clearly why .  now we are here and in spite of our procedural cooperation , the republican majority has managed to pass only two of the 10 appropriation bills under our responsibility .  why ?  in my view it is because the majority caucus has such a fundamental disrespect for the basic functions of government that it has sacrificed and squeezed so many education and health and veterans and other programs in order to pay for huge , supersize tax cuts for the most wealthy among us , that , in the end , they have not been able to convince their senate colleagues to go along and go on record and endorse those cuts .  so now we are faced with a stopgap funding bill which is brought to the house floor by the gentleman from california .  normally , if congress fails to pass its appropriation bills , then it continues funding at the existing rate until congress can get its act together .  instead , this bill does something quite different .  it says that for the time period under the continuing resolution , we will be spending at the lower of either last year or the house-passed bill or the senate-passed bill .  that results in a number of , i think , extremely inequitable realities .  it , for instance , means that we are effectively cutting in health care , it means that we are cutting maternal and child health care , and we are cutting rural health outreach programs .  it means that we are cutting the community service block grant , a program which deals with the needs of the poorest people in this society by 50 percent .  it means that we are eliminating the 10 percent increase that this house had planned for veterans health care .  it means that we are cutting the fbi by $ 616 million below the house-passed bill .  it means that we are freezing low-income heating assistance at a time when the cost of home heating for low-income americans is going to rise by 40 to 50 percent .  but it leaves intact , it leaves intact the huge , supersize tax cuts for the top 1 percent of earners in this society , people who make more than $ 400 , 000 a year .  and it leaves in place the president 's edict , his unilateral edict in the wake of hurricane katrina , that the workers in the afflicted area who are trying to put that area back together are not even going to be allowed to get a decent prevailing wage that they would otherwise be guaranteed under davis-bacon .  and yet while it is chiseling on the wages of those workers , it is saying to the persons who make over $ 400 , 000 a year , on average you are going to get a $ 32 , 000 tax cut .  mr. speaker , $ 32 , 000 is a lot more than a lot of people in this country make in a year .  a huge percentage of my district makes less than that $ 32 , 000 .  but we are going to give an average $ 32 , 000 tax cut to the people in this society who need it least .  the bill also assures the death of one part of the farm bill that was passed 3 years ago .  it makes sure that the only major farm bill that is going to expire is the program that is given some financial support to the smallest farmers in this country , the milc program .  now , the question is being asked in this town , `` how are we going to pay for hurricane katrina ?  `` in my judgment , mr. speaker , that is the wrong question .  katrina , no matter what the eventual cost is and it is going to be large .  it is going to be somewhere between $ 100 billion and $ 200 billion , i expect .  let us say it is $ 100 billion .  that is a huge amount of money .  but this economy is large enough to handle that because it is essentially a one-time bubble .  even though it will be spent out over the next 3 or 4 years , it is a one-time event , and this economy is always big enough to handle that .  but the right question to be asking is not how are we going to pay for katrina ?  the right question is : `` how are we going to be able to pay for the decisions already made by the republican majority of this congress and the white house to give away to the wealthiest people in this society , the top 1 percent , over $ 1 trillion in tax cuts over the next decade ?  `` we are going to give away , in tax cuts to the top 1 percent , ten times as much as katrina is being estimated to cost .  so the right question to ask is : `` what are we going to do so that we can afford to pay for the katrinas that come along and the iraqi war , where we have a war of choice driven by a president who misled us into that war by giving us false and misleading information ?  `` so if the members vote for this continuing resolution today , they are voting to keep those giant tax cuts in place .  they are voting to do not one blessed thing to deal with the long-term fiscal impact that they have on the country and , yes , will be chiseling on some of the programs that i just mentioned .  mr. speaker , i am going to offer a motion to recommit , which does a number of things .  i am going to offer a motion to recommit , which , number one , would provide that the funding levels in this bill be at the current rate rather than the three-headed rate spelled out by the gentleman , so that we do not , even for a month , cut back on what we are doing on job training or community service block grants or low-income heating assistance or other programs like that .  second , it will ask that we treat all farm programs the same .  third , it will restore davis-bacon prevailing wages .  it will countermand the president 's unilateral edict .  and that is basically what i will be asking the house to do .  under the rules of the house , as they have been jury-rigged , under the rule of the house , if a member of the house lodges a point of order , this motion to recommit will not be allowed to obtain a vote .  but if persons on the majority side of the aisle refrain from lodging a point of order , then the house would be allowed to vote on a measure which restores equity to the farm programs , on a measure which restores equity to funding levels for all programs , and it would restore davis-bacon protections for workers as well .  and it would also , i should add , instruct the congress to come back with a change in the tax code so that we limit the size of the tax cuts for people who make over $ 400 , 000 to the size received by persons in the top 5 percent of the economy .  that means they still get at least a $ 9 , 000 tax cut on average .  that is not bad .  to those in the majority side of the aisle who say that we should not be doing that , i would say that does not surprise me because that represents the economic philosophy of the majority party .  to those on the democratic side of the aisle who might find it a little nerve-racking to vote to scale back tax cuts even for those well-off folks , my suggestion is if they can not even stand up and do that , they might as well go and cross the aisle .  i most certainly am , mr. speaker .  mr. speaker , very briefly , section 1 of the motion to recommit would simply provide that we fund the programs covered under the continuing resolution at the current rate rather than at the lower of either the current rate of the house-passed or the senate-passed bill .  i have already explained the impact of that on program .  section 2 would simply repeal the president 's edict that workers in the katrina-affected region would not be subject to the protections of davis-bacon wage protections .  section 3 would simply guarantee that the milc program remains in force for the same length of time as other titles of the farm bill .  and section 4 would require a reduction in the size of the tax cuts for taxpayers with incomes of over $ 400 , 000 , as i just described in my previous remarks .  yes , i do , mr. speaker .  mr. speaker , on that i demand the yeas and nays .  mr. speaker , in the wake of hurricanes katrina and rita , our country has been made brutally aware that there in fact are two americas that exist in this country .  recently released census data shows that in 2004 , 37 million people were living in poverty .  in addition , this data shows that 1 in 6 children were living in poverty .  yet despite the overwhelming evidence of growing poverty rates and recent images of evacuees unable to leave new orleans due to their economic situation , this congress is proposing drastic cuts to community service block grants funding .  csbg gives funding to a vast array of programs , including senior citizen congregate meal sites , home delivered meals , transportation programs , job training programs , head start , energy crisis assistance , housing programs , education programs , and many other programs to address the needs of low-income families and individuals .  the 50 percent cut to csbg in the continuing resolution would have a devastating effect on evacuees and on low-income individuals .  at a time when our country has been severely impacted by natural disasters , it is extremely urgent that congress maintain csbg funding at its current level so that the delivery of much needed services to low-income people is not disrupted .  we have a responsibility to ensure that all americans have an opportunity to share in america 's prosperity .  it is irresponsible that we approve a continuing resolution that cuts funding for csbg by 50 percent below current funding levels when there is such an obvious need for the services that this funding provides .  mr. speaker , this rule will allow us to debate h. j. res. 68 , a continuing resolution that will fund the federal government past september 30 .  while this is an essential procedural measure , it also represents an opportunity .  between now and november 18 , when the resolution expires , congress has a responsibility to step back and consider its priorities .  the facts on the ground have changed , and our agenda here in the house must change accordingly .  i am confident that we will do right by those affected by the hurricanes , but we still need to ask ourselves where our financial and legislative duties are in response to katrina construction , continued funding for iraq and afghanistan , and increasing fiscal deficit .  are we looking at the big picture ?  are our priorities in line with our financial obligations ?  we know that because of katrina , the victims , those displaced from their homes , are more likely to rely on medicaid .  with that known expense , can we honestly reduce the funding for this responsibility and still extend tax cuts ?  mr. speaker , we need to take care of our fellow citizens , but what we do now should not mean we pass on an unsustainable debt to future generations , especially when we know there is a way we can offset these costs .  for the costs of this year 's installments of the tax cuts enacted in 2001 and 2003 , $ 225 billion this year alone , we could pay for the gulf states ' recovery from katrina .  we know that we need some of these cuts , such as amt relief , but let us at least be reasonable and put them on the table .  we must have an honest discussion about our fiscal situation .  i urge my colleagues to step back and take a hard look at how we will move forward , not just this fall , but next year and the decades after that .  mr. speaker , i am sure that all of my colleagues have heard me talk about my granddaughter anna , and we all have someone like her , someone we see as our future , someone that means the world to us .  i believe that she will grow up to a better future .  but , to do right by them , we must all step up to the plate , not as members of one party or another , but as leaders and statesmen willing to accept the reality of our fiscal situation and make the difficult decisions .  our priorities in the coming months should not waver from the ultimate goal .  mr. speaker , i reserve the balance of my time .  mr. speaker , i thank the gentleman from michigan ( mr. stupak )  and the gentleman from virginia ( mr. boucher )  for their leadership in offering this substitute , and i am proud to join them .  i rise in strong support of this substitute for two reasons .  unlike the underlying legislation , it contains a meaningful deterrent to price gouging , and it provides an effective strategy to expand refinery capacity .  we can all agree there were some good provisions in the first energy bill , but katrina exposed its shortcomings , as well as vulnerabilities that still exist in the energy market .  we can also agree that the hurricane made it harder to meet the challenge of delivering relief to families struggling to pay their energy bills and that a rash of price gouging compounded this problem .  our substitute takes direct aim at these challenges by creating a strong deterrent to price gouging that keeps gas prices stable .  the underlying bill sets an $ 11 , 000 fine for price gouging .  that may sound like a lot to the average middle class family , but it is not much to the exxon-mobils of this world who earn record profits .  in contrast , this substitute deters price gouging at every stage of production , not just the retail phase , but at all phases in the chain of supply , and this will strengthen those measures .  mr. speaker , now is the time that we must stand up to profiteers by assuring hardworking american families that congress is standing up for their interests , not the oil companies ' .  i urge my colleagues to support this substitute that protects american taxpayers and our national security .  mr. speaker , i offer a motion to recommit .  in its present form , yes .  mr. speaker , 1 year ago , the price of a gallon of gasoline in america was $ 1.94 .  the day before hurricane katrina struck , it was $ 2.61 .  this difference shows that exorbitant increases began even before katrina wreaked havoc on our economy .  the day after katrina , prices jumped to $ 3.07 .  today , our constituents are looking toward their elected representatives to rein in gas prices once and for all .  earlier this year , we passed up a golden opportunity to protect americans from price gouging when we enacted the first energy bill .  if we pass this energy bill in its current form , we pass up that opportunity a second time .  let us not make the same mistake twice .  in that spirit , we offer this motion to recommit , which attacks soaring gas prices head on .  our motion achieves this objective by investing new authority in the ftc to investigate , enforce and then punish price gouging and market manipulation .  specifically , our motion prohibits the sale of crude oil , gasoline , natural gas or any other petroleum distillates at a price that is considered either unconscionably excessive or indicates the seller is taking unfair advantage of the circumstances to increase prices unreasonably .  any violation will result in new civil penalties , and will be enforced with up to triple the damages of the profits gained by the violation .  unlike the underlying bill , this motion has teeth by reining in scrupulous practices of the oil and gas executives , interested more in padding their bottom line than helping middle-class families make ends meet .  i urge my colleagues to stand up to the oil companies and show hardworking americans that we are in their corner .  now is the time we must act , to prove that their interests are paramount , not the oil companies ' .  our price gouging provisions are superior to those of the underlying legislation , and our provisions are in effect at every stage of the oil and gas production , covering everyone in the supply chain .  let us put an end to price gouging once and for all .  do not let another opportunity go by without giving middle-class families the relief that they so desperately need and deserve .  if you want to do the right thing for america here and now , vote for the motion to recommit .  mr. speaker , i demand a recorded vote .  mr. speaker , i rise in strong opposition to h.r. 3893 , the `` second energy special interest act of 2005. '' the bush administration 's energy policy and the machinations of the republican leadership on this subject have an alice in wonderland quality .  it was the vice president , after all , who said that energy conservation may have been a virtue but it was no basis for a national energy policy .  yet just last week the president was compelled by circumstances to urge the only things that are really going to work to get us out of this energy crisis : conservation , the use of mass transit , and changing american driving habits .  unfortunately , the administration has not put forward any concrete proposals or recommendations for conservation initiatives .  instead , he has cut funding for the conservation and efficiency programs we already have in place .  it is unconscionable that this most recent energy bill completely misses the point .  we 're not going to drill , dig , and subsidize our way out of this energy crisis .  burning money is not an efficient way to produce energy .  we must have an energy program for this century , not the 1950s .  this new energy policy should consist of more efficiency , new technology , and less petroleum .  if we 're going to spend more money , it should be invested in programs that actually help people .  higher fuel efficiency standards , public transit , and even bicycles , will do much more to reduce our dependence on foreign oil than what 's in this bill .  if just two percent of trips taken nationwide were taken by bikes , we would save more than two thirds of a billion gallons of gasoline a year and up to $ 5 billion in total consumer driving costs .  increasing fuel economy standards by a mere 1.5 miles per gallon -- less than 10 percent -- over the next 10 years would save more oil than we currently import from the persian gulf and more than we could ever recover from the arctic national wildlife refuge , combined .  last but not least , this bill 's focus on making it easier to build more refineries by limiting our environmental standards completely misses the point .  the fact is , the energy industry makes more money by restricting refinery capacity ; the refiners ' profits have jumped 80 percent over the past 5 years .  as long as the oil companies stand to make more money with limited supply , this approach is doomed to fail .  this energy bill is not only a missed opportunity , but it is a cynical effort by washington republicans to exploit the tragedy of hurricanes katrina and rita to give more subsidies to oil companies and to roll back environmental laws .  mr. speaker , i yield myself 2 minutes .  mr. speaker , the bill before us today was rushed through the committee .  it did not receive a single legislative hearing .  it would weaken environmental protections but would do nothing to reduce the price of gasoline .  there has been much attention given to the fact that our nation 's refinery capacity is limited , but there has been no substantial evidence presented to conclude that the reason for this shortage is difficulty in siting or obtaining the environmental permits necessary in order to build a new refinery .  in fact , there has been some evidence that suggests the reason for the thin refinery capacity is that refiners are reluctant to build new facilities since they are enjoying record profits under the current regime .  the bill before us would seek to increase refinery capacity by easing environmental requirements and providing additional federal authorities for siting new facilities .  based on the evidence before us , that would be the wrong remedy .  there is a better approach .  later today i will be joining with our colleague , the gentleman from michigan ( mr. stupak )  , in offering a substitute for the bill .  our substitute would address the refinery capacity issue by creating a strategic refinery reserve .  the new reserve would build on the success of the strategic petroleum reserve and would provide the nation with a reserve refinery capacity that could be used in times of national emergency to increase the supply of gasoline and minimize supply disruptions and price spikes .  given the choices that are before us today , the substitute that the gentleman from michigan ( mr. stupak )  and i will be offering is far more likely to address our real gasoline supply problems than the underlying bill .  mr. speaker , i reserve the balance of my time .  mr. speaker , i rise in strong opposition to this ill-conceived legislation .  this bill is a shameless attempt to use the tragedy of katrina as an engine to drive bad policies into law .  the purported reason behind the bill is the high cost of gas caused by katrina , and this is the bill that is supposed to meet that challenge .  but gas prices were at record highs before katrina hit .  katrina merely ramped them up and provided an excuse to push more failed republican energy ideas .  i guess the best thing we can say about the bill is what is not in it , namely , the repeal of the longstanding , bipartisan moratorium on new offshore drilling .  but the bill , however , does gut public health and environmental laws .  it does strip states and localities of the authority to protect their own citizens .  and , bottom line , it fails to protect consumers from price gouging at the pump , which we have seen going on on a regular basis .  mr. speaker , the problem of high gas prices is a serious one .  it affects businesses and families on a daily basis , and i should know because my gas prices in my district are usually among the highest in the nation .  right now they hover around $ 3.50 a gallon .  but this bill is not about trying to do something about that .  it is about trying to distract the american people from a failed republican energy strategy , a strategy that fails to realize that we have 3 percent of the world 's oil reserves while we account for 25 percent of the world demand .  this is a strategy that relies on increasing our supplies at all costs while conservation efforts are ridiculed by our vice president as `` signs of personal virtue. '' this is a strategy that says if laws over the past several years , we have had repeated chances to craft commonsense , efficient , and effective energy legislation that would set america on a more stable future ; but this republican congress has failed to do that and this , failure is once again realized in this bill .  so i urge my colleagues to vote for the alternative and to vote down this awful legislation .  mr. speaker , well , the majority party is shocked , shocked that price gouging took place in the wake of katrina .  of course , they turned a blind eye to the gouging of consumers for months and years before that by big oil working in collusion with opec .  in the last 4 years , the top five oil companies have made $ 254 billion of profits .  exxon-mobil , in the quarter before katrina , $ 14 billion in one-quarter .  and this bill does nothing to provide price relief to consumers or prevent gouging .  big oil gets a pass yet again .  they are not getting as big of a gift this time , just a pass .  they point the finger at the retailers .  well , with rare exceptions , the gouging is not at the retail level .  producers of gas , they are getting 46 percent more , 47 cents a gallon ; refiners , they are up to 250 percent in one year , 70 cents a gallon .  every american is paying 70 cents a gallon more to the refiners and 2 cents more on average to the retail people .  it is not the retailers who are price gouging .  the chairman says `` we have closed 175 refineries. '' he can only say `` we '' if he is the oil industry .  the oil industry has consciously colluded to close refineries to squeeze supply to drive up the price .  it is the same thing enron did in california to stick it to everybody on the west coast of america .  tried and true .  the industry has been doing that for years .  it is not environmental laws or regulation which have closed these refineries .  they have been closed by mergers and a conscious decision of the chief operating officers and ceos of big oil to drive up their profits , and boy , have they done that .  unfortunately , it is about to destroy small businesses and consumers across america .  but they still can not take them on .  they can not take on their benefactors here on the floor .  the president offered last year to let valero or anybody else build a new refinery on a closed military base , waiving all environmental laws , and the chief operating officer of valero , stock up 263 percent in one year , you thought google was doing good , he said , why would we do that ?  it is working really well the way it is .  it is phenomenally profitable for them and the few others who still operate refineries .  we need real help for americans , short-term relief against price gouging , take on opec in the world trade organization .  and then we need longer-term new technology , new fuels , more efficiency , true energy independence for the united states of america from big oil and the saudi and the opec cartels .  that would be something for the american people .  you are not doing that .  mr. speaker , we have before us today a hastily crafted minimally reviewed bill of doubtful value and most curious circumstance .  we have had no hearings on the specific measure before us .  the major changes in language in the bill were revealed late last night , i believe at 11 p.m .  we have not received a single response to the questions we asked of the department of energy and the environmental protection agency .  we do not know whether the provisions in the energy bill passed less than 2 months ago to expedite refinery siting are working .  we do not know what these new provisions on refinery sitings are going to do .  we literally have before us a bill which is composed of scraps assembled from the waste baskets at the house legislative counsel , crafted together by my republican colleagues to do something which they will have great difficulty in explaining today .  there can only be one explanation for this rush to the floor , and that is the desire of the republican leadership of the house to use the hardship of the devastation of hurricanes katrina and rita to push various parts of their agenda .  the former majority leader , as is custom , has tried to blame democrats for all ills , saying , and i quote , `` [ t ] he democrats made us drop many important issues out of the last energy bill that would have helped this situation that we have found ourselves in now , and it is time to go back and revisit those. '' i would remind the house that it was widely pointed out when that legislation was before us what a remarkable example of bipartisanship and legislative cooperation it was .  of course , the committee chairman has offered to negotiate , and i want to express my affection and respect for him .  but the predetermined schedules of the goal meant that all the republicans wished to negotiate for was political cover for themselves and perhaps surrender by the democratic members .  now we have before us a poorly thought out and poorly vetted effort to pass the republican and energy wish list .  this is not the way to respond to energy issues raised by hurricanes .  if we decide to act on an expedited basis , we should be focusing on immediate problems of rising gasoline prices and anticipated increases in natural gas and home heating oil prices which are coming upon us in the fall .  democrats will today offer a sensible substitute that provides tough consequences for price gouging whenever it occurs in the industry , not just by the little corner gas station .  our substitute will tackle the problem of limited refinery capacity head-on by creating a national strategic refinery reserve patterned after the successful strategic petroleum reserve .  we direct the secretary of energy to establish and operate refineries that will help protect our national security and protect consumers from supply disruptions .  the public interest demands no less .  i urge my colleagues to vote against the bill and for the democratic substitute .  mr. speaker , i have a plane to catch in about 1 hour .  am i going to be able to make it ?  will my colleagues be able to make it ?  will the vote be ended by that time ?  mr. speaker , i rise today in strong opposition to the wrongly named gasoline for america 's security act .  it would be more appropriate to call this the do n't hold your breath act , as this bill will not do what my colleagues on the other side claim .  while it is clear to all of us that our nation does not have the refinery capacity that we need , it is equally clear that the bill before us will not increase this shortfall .  the idea that simply eliminating environmental standards and removing judicial control will solve this problem is absolutely wrong .  over the past 30 years , there has been only one application filed to build a new refinery .  i will say that again : only one application has been filed .  we are not talking about permit after permit being thrown out .  we are not talking about an industry trying time after time to site a facility and being denied .  what we are talking about is the fact that the gasoline industry makes the vast majority of their profits at the refinery level , and there is zero economic incentive for them to increase their capacity .  as long as the refineries are operating at near 100 percent , their profit margins are through the roof .  this bill ignores this obvious fact and instead focuses on eliminating environmental protections , which is nothing more than a scapegoat measure that will not do anything to address the basic problem .  so what does this bill actually do ?  it strips virtually all of the environmental protections of the clean air act , the clean water act , and the endangered species act when they come into conflict with the siting of a refinery .  the bill removes all cases challenging refinery siting from local state courts and forces communities to come to washington , d.c .  in order to challenge the selection of their hometown for a new refinery .  and , further , if the local communities lose in court , they have to pay all of the industry 's legal bills .  this bill also will limit the federal trade commission 's ability to impose penalties when presented with evidence of price gouging , effectively incentivizing industry to take advantage of disasters like katrina .  for these reasons , i ask my colleagues to reject this bill .  democrats have a substitute that will address critical shortages during disasters without gutting our environmental laws , and it deserves our support .  mr. speaker , i thank the gentleman for yielding me this time , and i rise in strong opposition to this bill .  it is ironic that this bill is called the gasoline for america 's security act , or gas act , because this bill is certainly filled with a lot of hot air .  this bill will do nothing to bring down the cost of gasoline .  my constituents and millions of americans want to know why they are paying $ 3 and more for gasoline .  just today in the newspaper it reported that americans can expect to spend 45 to 90 percent more on home heating fuel this year than they did last winter .  this is absolutely unconscionable .  we saw during hurricane katrina looters in new orleans , but the real looters are the big oil companies .  they are looting the american people .  they are making record profits .  what does this bill do ?  it does nothing to bring down the price of gasoline .  that is what americans want .  they do not want rhetoric .  they do not want more sop to the oil and gas industry .  they do not want more of the same .  since i am from the bronx , i will quote yogi berra of the yankees : it is deja vu all over again .  once again , the majority has presented us with legislation that purports to respond to skyrocketing gas prices , but does nothing of the sort .  under the guise of responding to hurricane katrina , we are voting on a bill that guts environmental and public health protections and does nothing to reduce our nation 's devastating dependence on middle eastern oil .  further , we are once again witnessing the majority undermining states ' rights on the floor of the house .  this bill includes provisions that preempt state and local government 's authority to decide where refinery facilities are placed in individual communities .  what this country critically needs , but was neither in the energy policy act of 2005 , which was signed into law , nor in this bill , is a policy to reduce our addiction to oil through the promotion of alternatives and clean renewables , automotive fuel efficiency and the reduction of greenhouse gases .  we must create policies that achieve these goals , and we need not destroy the environment and the rights of our citizens in doing so .  this is a sop to the industry .  it gives us more of the same .  it does nothing to lower gas prices .  i urge a `` no '' vote .  mr. speaker , i thank the gentleman for yielding me time .  mr. speaker , i rise in opposition to the bill and in support of the democratic substitute .  i would like to start out by saluting the gentleman from new york ( mr. boehlert )  for having the courage as a republican to stand up and to take the position that he has .  i think it is a sad day when the republican party is no longer holding on to the environmental mantle .  one of my predecessors , pete mccloskey , was a great champion in the congress on those issues , and i think it is regrettable that that is where the republicans are today , because if there were more that would stand up , we would be able to put into place a bill that would really serve the american people well .  hurricanes katrina and rita only exacerbated what has been happening to consumers in our country for the past year .  weeks before katrina hit , consumers were paying higher and higher prices at the pump .  in california , prices climbed $ 1 between january and august .  they rose 50 cents in a month 's time between july and august , with prices rising to well over $ 3 a gallon .  i paid close to $ 4 a gallon in my congressional district just a week ago .  consumers in other parts of the country have seen similar hikes .  if we look at what the washington post recently reported , it is painfully evident that the oil industry and the refiners have profited handsomely .  the money going to crude producers has climbed 46 percent over the last year .  for refiners , revenues have increased 255 percent in one year , from september 2004 to september 2005 .  the last time i remember seeing revenue increases like this was when enron , reliant and other gougers were raking in their profits during the so-called california energy crisis .  and the explanations are also too familiar .  we are being told again we are paying the price for having too little capacity .  it is not the case , mr. speaker .  the record shows otherwise .  it is economics , not regulations , that have led to the shortfall in capacity .  i hope everyone will support the democratic substitute .  it is the legislation that will really put the gougers ' feet to the fire and do something about it .  i urge everyone to vote for the substitute and against the base bill .  mr. speaker , i rise today in opposition to h.r. 3893 .  our country is facing a painful energy crisis under the policies of this administration and congressional leadership .  just last week , i received a letter from a constituent of mine , paul perry of dunn , north carolina , a small businessman struggling to make ends meet .  he wrote : `` we just broke ground on a new brick plant and should be in operation by august of 2006 .  i just hope gas prices do n't break us before we get the new plant in production. '' the american people desperately need effective new energy policies , but h.r. 3893 is simply more of the same failed giveaways to big oil .  the bill on the floor today is nothing more than a giveaway to big oil companies ; and on top of this , it contains environmental rollbacks that the administration has been unsuccessfully pursuing for years for gas and coal fired power plants .  these provisions would relax existing pollution controls on thousands of industrial facilities across the country in what one energy industry official even called the most blatant attack on state and local environmental authority that he 's ever seen .  this legislation would throw out provisions my state of north carolina implemented when we passed our own clean smokestacks legislation .  this legislation would cap penalties levied against big oil companies and refineries caught price gouging to meager amounts at a time when they are recording record profits .  finally , this bill would give tax breaks to those same oil companies at a time of record budget deficits .  i urge my colleagues to vote against this bill , and to support the substitute that provides real provisions to crack down on price gouging .  the substitute bill provides real help to the american people .  it punishes price gougers , not just the gas stations but the refineries , the wholesalers , and any of the big oil companies if they are caught taking advantage of the american people .  the substitute also creates a strategic refining capacity for the country in times of a national emergency , without jeopardizing the environmental safeguards put in place by the congress to protect our air , water , land , and public health .  again , i urge my colleagues to support the democratic substitute .  mr. speaker , parliamentary inquiry .  mr. speaker , my question is in the current uncertainty , do you know which members the leadership from whom you are to take instruction to close the vote -- -- mr. speaker , one of the things that you can say about the way in which the national republican party has handled america 's energy problem is that they are being very consistent , and that goes back to the first moment when they controlled both the congress and the white house ; when the president , charged by the bush administration to develop an energy policy , did the natural thing for them , brought in the energy companies to tell them what kind of policy we should have .  that attitude is reflected in this bill , as well as the one that this congress passed last july .  they are both deferential to the energy companies at the expense of the american people .  everything goes to the energy companies ; nothing goes to the american people .  the energy companies last year , the oil companies , made record profits , more than $ 125 billion .  one corporation alone made more than $ 25 billion in profits in 2004 .  their profits in 2005 are even higher , while the american people struggle to get back and forth to work because of the price of gasoline and as they will struggle this winter to heat their homes to try to stay safe and secure .  lives will be lost because of the way in which the national republican party is handling this energy problem .  in order to justify gasoline being sold at $ 3 a gallon under a free , open market , you would have to have oil priced at $ 95 a barrel .  but we do not have a free and open market , even though the republicans claim we do .  we have a market that is controlled by the oil companies , for the oil companies and against the interests of the american people , and all of that is conspired and entered into by the national republican party , in the white house and in this congress as well .  that is what we are seeing here today in the context of this legislation : more for the oil companies , less for americans .  struggle , struggle , struggle for the american worker ; struggle , struggle , struggle for the american family , while huge profits are given to the oil companies over and over again .  it has got to stop .  defeat this rule , defeat the bill , pass the stupak substitute .  the parliamentary inquiry would be how long , under parliamentary procedure , will this vote continue ?  we have passed that , is my understanding , mr. speaker .  mr. speaker , i am informed by the tally clerk that every member of congress who is in town has voted .  has voted .  has voted .  i do have a parliamentary inquiry .  in that instance , is it not appropriate , once the people have spoken through their representatives in this house , to bring the vote to a close ?  i do not think that is hypothetical .  that is the fact .  i thank the speaker .  i am disappointed at the response , but i understand it .  mr. waxman ( during the vote ) .  parliamentary inquiry , mr. speaker .  when a bill does not have a hearing -- -- mr. speaker , this bill is a giant missed opportunity .  we had an opportunity to do something significant .  kennedy said we were going to go to the moon in 10 years ; this bill will not get us to cleveland .  and the reason is it invests in old technology .  did kennedy challenge the country to invest in propeller plane technology ?  here we are simply investing in oil fossil fuel technology , a giveaway to the oil and gas industry of millions and billions of dollars of taxpayer money .  we need a new apollo energy project .  h.r. 2828 will get us there with new technologies and fuel-efficient cars , new technologies and new productive capabilities in wind and solar and wave power and a whole slew of other things .  we need new ideas , we need a new vision , not an old giveaway to oil and gas .  mr. speaker , this bill is one small misstep for man and one giant leap backwards for mankind , and it should be defeated .  mr. speaker , the spike in gasoline prices after hurricanes katrina and rita has drawn national attention to domestic energy supplies , as well as fuel efficiency standards .  instead of the bush administration and the republican congress offering a bill reducing gas prices , home heating prices , declare our nation 's energy independence , protect the environment , and put funds into increasing energy research and development , this republican congress promotes a bill that includes massive subsidies to oil companies at the expense of americans .  hurricanes katrina and rita devastated much of the energy infrastructure in the gulf of mexico .  the region contains 47 percent of the nation 's oil refining capacity , and 19 percent of the nation 's natural gas production .  immediately after hurricane katrina the national average price for gasoline increased 46 cents to $ 3.07 per gallon .  home heating costs , including home heating oil , natural gas and electricity are predicted to increase 50-90 percent over last year 's prices .  since 2001 , home heating oil costs have nearly tripled , and natural gas costs have more than doubled , nearing crisis levels for homeowners and americans on a fixed and low income .  president bush recently gave a speech calling on consumers to conserve gasoline and other fuels .  i have yet to hear the president urge oil , coal , utility , and energy companies to reduce their costs .  during a time oil and refinery company profits are more than 200 percent , the republican solution is to offer subsidies to a profitable industry , to rollback environmental regulations , and to increase gasoline and home heating prices to americans .  this bill is anti-consumer and anti-environment .  the american people need real relief at the gas pump and with their heating bills .  democrats support an energy policy that helps americans by stopping price gouging and increasing refinery capacity to keep gas and home heating prices low .  the bill before us today will do nothing to lower gas prices at the pump or lower home heating costs .  if the alternative offered by my michigan colleague , representative bart stupak is accepted , we would have a strong energy bill .  the stupak substitute gives the federal trade commission new powers to prohibit price gouging for gasoline , diesel , natural gas , home heating oil , and propane .  the substitute also creates a new strategic refinery reserve that would give our country the ability to produce refined oil products during extreme energy situations .  this approach is more favorable and will help americans at this most difficult time .  the underlying legislation is a bad deal for america .  i urge my colleagues to join me in voting against passage of the energy bill .  mr. speaker , first of all , at the appropriate time , i will enter some extraneous information into the record .  mr. speaker , it is very clear when we look at what has happened in the last few years where we have had a number of mergers of oil companies , the top five oil companies , i believe , now dominate more than a third of the market .  as a result , we see that prices keep increasing as market concentration increases .  this is a clear example of what happens when monopolies dominate an economy .  we have high prices , and we also have manipulation of supplies , increased profits ; and now we have price gouging .  with this manipulation of supply , we are also seeing an attempt today to attack our environmental laws .  that puts us in a position where we sacrifice not only the standard of living of many americans to the oil companies but now we are sacrificing the environment itself .  i think that many americans are already aware that one of the reasons that we are in iraq is because of oil .  i mean , very few people would dispute that now .  there were no weapons of mass destruction , they are not going to have a democracy there , but the administration is preparing to stay there for the long haul , and it is because of oil .  oil is corrupting this government .  oil is costing us peace in the world .  oil is putting us on a path to economic ruin .  oil is dominating this political process right now .  we need to take a new course .  we can start with the windfall profits tax , but we have to go beyond that .  we need to look at alternative energy , the power of the sun .  sunlight is a disinfectant in many ways , but it is also a powerful energy source .  we need wind power , we need geothermal , we need to tap all available technologies to take us in a new direction where the globe itself is not at stake .  what a disgrace it is that we put the lives and the existence of the gwitchin indians in alaska at risk for more oil .  what a disgrace it is that we violate people 's human rights for more oil .  what a disgrace it is that we are not taking a new direction , not just to save the planet , but to save democracy .  vote down the bill .  public citizen , washington , dc , october 5 , 2005 .  dear representative : on friday , october 7 the house will consider h.r. 3893 , the `` gasoline for america 's security ( gas ) act of 2005. '' this bill takes the approach that environmental laws must be weakened in order to encourage the u.s. refining industry to expand or construct new refining capacity .  this is false .  the facts clearly show that not only are current environmental laws in place at a time when the refining industry is experiencing record profits , but that recent , fundamental changes to the refining industry -- namely recent mergers -- have created financial incentives for refineries to encourage tight supplies .  until these market fundamentals -- and not environmental rules -- are corrected , americans will continue to be price-gouged by oil companies .  this week , the national average gasoline price hit $ 2.93/gallon , up 50 percent from a year ago .  these prices were well on their way to hitting record highs long before hurricane katrina .  oil and gasoline prices were rising long before hurricane katrina wreaked havoc .  u.s. gasoline prices jumped 14 percent from july 25 to august 22 .  the problem is that too few oil companies control too much of the refineries , squelching competition but guaranteeing record profits for the industry .  in 1993 , the 5 largest u.s. oil refining companies controlled 34.5 percent of domestic oil refinery capacity ; the top 10 companies controlled 55.6 percent .  by 2004 , the top 5 -- conocophillips , valero , exxonmobil , shell and bp -- controlled 56.3 percent and the top 10 refiners controlled 83 percent .  as a result of all of these recent mergers , the largest 5 oil refiners today control more capacity than the largest 10 did a decade ago .  this dramatic increase in the control of just the top 5 companies makes it easier for oil companies to manipulate gasoline prices .  the proof is in the numbers .  according to the energy information administration , profit margins for u.s. oil refiners have been at record highs .  in 1999 , u.s. oil refiners made 22.8 cents for every gallon of gasoline refined from crude oil .  by 2004 , they were making 40.8 cents for every gallon of gasoline refined , a 79 percent jump .  and the washington post noted that those profit margins have soared even higher in 2005 , to 99 cents on each gallon sold , for a more than 300 percent increase since 1999 .  it is no coincidence that oil corporation profits -- including refining -- are enjoying record highs .  since 2001 , the largest 5 oil refiners in america have recorded $ 228 billion in profits .  and will the environmental regulations make it easier to build new refineries ?  no , because the financial structure of the refining industry is what is prohibiting additional investment .  that 's because the industry is making record profits off of the current tight supplies .  they have no interest in creating surplus capacity because that will erode their profit margins .  want proof ?  start with the u.s. federal trade commission .  in march 2001 , ftc concluded in its midwest gasoline price investigation : `` ... ..  a significant part of the supply reduction was caused by the investment decisions of three firms ... ..  one firm increased its summer-grade rfg [ reformulated gasoline ] production substantially and , as a result , had excess supplies of rfg available and had additional capacity to produce more rfg at the time of the price spike .  this firm did sell off some inventoried rfg , but it limited its response because selling extra supply would have pushed down prices and thereby reduced the profitability of its existing rfg sales .  an executive of this company made clear that he would rather sell less gasoline and earn a higher margin on each gallon sold than sell more gasoline and earn a lower margin .  another employee of this firm raised concerns about oversupplying the market and thereby reducing the high market prices .  so , that settles it : u.s. oil refineries would rather sell less gasoline and earn bigger profits than flood the market and earn lower profit margins .  so gutting environmental laws , as h.r. 3893 proposes , will do nothing to expand refining capacity , but it will reduce public health protections for americans .  and a may 2004 u.s. government accountability office report agreed with public citizen that recent mergers in the oil industry have directly led to higher prices .  it is important to note , however , that this gao report severely underestimates the impact mergers have on prices because their price analysis stops in 2000 -- long before the mergers that created chevrontexaco , conocophillips , and valero-ultramar/diamond shamrock-premcor .  rolling back environmental laws will do nothing to lower prices , but it will weaken public health protections for americans .  sincerely , tyson slocum , mr. speaker , i rise today in opposition to h.r. 3893 , which pretends to be a response to our nation 's exorbitant energy costs , but which is actually a giveaway to oil and gas companies that does n't help america 's struggling consumers .  in fact , many of the provisions in this legislation are not new ; we have seen them before , but they have proven so controversial that they were excluded from the energy bill that congress passed earlier this year .  rhode islanders are paying an average of $ 2.86 for a gallon of gasoline , and high home heating oil and natural gas prices are causing families to wonder how they will be able to afford to stay warm in the coming winter months .  in recent weeks , rhode islanders have learned of two utility rate increases for both electricity and gas .  these proposed increases come at a time when the average price of gasoline at the pump is up 51 percent , compared with last year , and home heating oil is up 57 percent in the same period .  congress must take swift action to reduce the cost of energy , but this bill benefits only the oil and gas industries , which have been reaping record profits in recent months .  we have heard legitimate questions about how much of the recent increase in energy costs is the result of price fixing , yet this legislation 's provisions to combat price gouging are insufficient and amount to no more than a slap on the wrist .  furthermore , it would reverse long-standing health and environmental protections , despite strong opposition nationwide to these proposals .  in fact , one of the bill 's original provisions -- expanding loopholes for refineries and power plants to avoid compliance with the clean air act -- was deemed so controversial that it was removed in the dead of night .  i support the democratic plan to establish strong federal laws and new penalties to crack down on price gouging .  the stupak-boucher substitute empowers the federal trade commission to combat price gouging for gasoline , diesel , natural gas , home heating oil , and propane .  unlike the republican bill , the democratic proposal includes real penalties for price gouging and energy market manipulation -- up to $ 3 million per day .  additionally , the democratic plan would create a strategic refinery reserve , which like the strategic petroleum reserve , would improve our nation 's ability to prevent oil and gasoline shortages in the wake of a natural disaster such as a hurricane .  our nation needs a new , long-term energy policy that encourages the use of renewable fuels and energy conservation efforts .  to this end , i have cosponsored legislation to increase automobile fuel efficiency standards and have strongly supported congressman inslee 's new apollo energy act , which would establish a nationwide commitment to developing and promoting new energy sources for the future .  this strategy is important not only for our economy , but also for our national security .  unfortunately , the republican bill considered today does nothing to move us toward that goal , but instead offers us more of the failed policies of the past .  i urge my colleagues to support the stupak-boucher substitute and to oppose h.r. 3893 .  mr. speaker , parliamentary inquiry .  mr. speaker , the all-time world 's record for a vote was 3 hours for the prescription drug medicare bill .  do we anticipate beating that today ?  i am sorry , mr. speaker .  mr. speaker , i rise today in strong opposition to h.r. 3893 , the gasoline for america 's security act of 2005 .  this legislation will do nothing to lower the high cost of gas or help families pay for home heating oil this winter .  rather , it 's another taxpayer subsidy from the republican majority to the oil and gas companies while the american people continue to face the increasing burdens that the rising cost of fuel is placing on family budgets .  i urge my colleagues to oppose this legislation .  mr. speaker , i observe that we are operating in a 5-minute vote , and we are now nearing 20 minutes for this vote to have been completed .  mr. speaker , where does the point at which at the discretion of the chair is no longer being used for the convenience of the members but instead in order to abuse the discretion that the chair has in keeping -- -- mr. speaker , we have a national energy crisis now .  if my colleagues on the other side of the aisle do not appreciate that fact , i would suggest that they go home to their districts and listen to their constituents .  instead , we are rushing a flawed bill to the floor that will once again reward the very industries that have gouged the american people .  it is unacceptable for anybody in this congress to say we can not do anything about the short-term crisis of high energy costs .  we must .  that is what our constituents expect us to do .  that is what we should be doing today here on the floor .  the cost of filling a tank of gas ranges between $ 40 and $ 100 .  there are workers whose wages do not compensate for the cost of driving to and from work .  i have senior citizens in my district and low- and moderate-income families who are scared out of their minds about how they will heat their homes this winter .  we must crack down on price gouging in the short term and find other ways to lower prices .  this is an emergency .  it requires dramatic action by the government of the united states .  in the long term , we should reduce our reliance on foreign oil by aggressively pursuing renewable energy sources , something that we should have been doing a long time ago .  what we have here in this so-called `` gas act '' is more of the same : tax breaks to reward the bad behavior of oil and gas companies ; reduced regulations that compromise our communities ; and nothing , absolutely nothing , for the relief of our citizens .  let me say to my colleagues who vote for this , do not go home and tell their constituents that they did anything for them because in truth they have not .  when they ask them what did they do to lower the prices of gas and home heating oil , they can say honestly they did nothing .  mr. speaker , i would urge my colleagues to support the stupak substitute , which will deal head-on with the issue of price gouging ; and if that fails , i would urge my colleagues to defeat this bill and to go back to the committee and do something meaningful .  the status quo does not work .  it is time for a comprehensive , honest-to-goodness energy plan , and this is not it .  mr. speaker , parliamentary inquiry .  mr. speaker , is the discretion of the chair or the abuse of the discretion of the chair and the abuse of power subject to a vote of the house to continue this vote open ?  because we have a history on this house floor of illegalities taking place to change people 's vote .  is the discretion of the chair and an abuse of the discretion of the chair subject to a ruling and a vote by this house ?  is the gentleman sure about that ?  the gentleman looks good .  mr. speaker , the gentleman is absolutely right .  the amazing thing to me when i was listening to the republicans in the last hour is when they were trying to make the analogy to their households and talking about their kids .  and one of the republican members talked about how he went down to the candy store and you could only spend what was in your pocket , and that is what we want to do here .  and i was saying , these guys on the republican side of the aisle have been building up deficits ever since president bush came into office .  how do they have the nerve to even talk about making the analogy with their households and going to the candy store when from the day that they arrived they have been increasing the deficit ?  i know the gentleman says he is older than me and i question that .  i know i have been here longer than he .  i remember when i first came down in 1988 , there were a group of republicans who would come down and do special orders every night , and they had the pages come out with this digital clock that really was the length of this dais here , and every night they would talk about the deficit and how they wanted to cut the deficit and the deficit was climbing too high .  that is just all completely out of the window .  all they have done now is increase the deficit .  i have statistics here that this budget resolution which they were going to vote on last week and now they so far can not get the votes for it , and hopefully they will never get the votes for it that they were talking about , will increase the deficit by more than $ 100 billion over 5 years .  by contrast , the house democratic budget achieved balance in 2012 .  i wanted to respond to one thing the gentleman said because he took us back to the clinton administration and the last 2 or 3 years when we had a surplus .  not only did we have a surplus because we had a balanced budget but the economy was booming .  jobs were being created left and right .  i do not care if you were rich or you were poor , things were getting better .  but president bush comes in and he is elected and he says , the answer to the economy is we are going to cut taxes .  and the taxes were cut mostly for wealthy people and corporate interests and special interests that were helping the republicans with their campaign finance .  and that was supposed to be the answer to the economy .  well , i will say , i have this briefing paper from the economic policy institute , which is a bipartisan group .  this is not a democratic organization .  and they are talking about the boom that was not .  the economy has little to show for the $ 860 billion in tax cuts under president bush .  as the gentleman said , we went from a surplus of something like 2 or $ 300 billion .  now just the opposite , a deficit that is two or three times that .  and they come to the conclusion in this report , i just want to read this one section , it says : `` almost every broad measure of economic activity , gross domestic product , jobs , personal income , and business investment among others , has fared worse over the last 4 years than in the past cycles .  proponents of this series of major tax cuts since 2001 have projected that gauges such as these would reflect improvements after enactment. '' in fact , the opposite has occurred .  not only have we created a huge deficit under the bush republican administration , but all the indicators of economic activity have gone down .  so where this republican philosophy has just created a dynamic that has really ruined the economy , it is not completely ruined , we are getting along , but by every economic indicator things were better in the last few years of the clinton administration .  mr. speaker , i wanted to say one thing , and then i want to lead into the issue of this budget reconciliation that we want to talk about tonight .  i wanted to go back to what my colleague from massachusetts said about how , since the bush administration came into office , the fiscal policy benefits wealthy people and is at the expense of the middle class .  there is no question that is true .  i would venture to say that the republican fiscal policy is really stupid for everyone because the bottom line is that in the last few years of the clinton administration , when we had a surplus and we were balancing the budget , everybody was getting richer .  the richer were getting richer , the middle class was doing better , and the poor were doing better .  i do not even think if you are wealthy you are doing better under bush .  you are doing better than the rest of the guys because the rest of the guys are suffering , but the irony of it is , in the last few years of the clinton administration , the economy was booming so much that everybody was doing better .  i do not even care if i were the wealthiest person in the world , i do not see how i benefit under this administration ultimately , because if the economy does not grow the way it did in the boom years of the clinton administration , nobody benefits .  it is true , of course , that it is primarily for the benefit of the wealthy .  there is no question about that .  what i wanted to stress tonight , and all that we do is that the republicans now have gone even further .  now they are saying because they have to pay for katrina , they want to do this budget reconciliation , which is another sort of round of budget cuts ; and those budget cuts are primarily at the expense of poor people and working-class people rather than the wealthy .  what we are seeing is all the programs that might benefit middle-class people , working-class people or poor people , whether it is student loans or it is health care or it is housing , are all being cut ; and those cuts directly impact the hurricane victims .  rather than going after wealthy individuals or cutting benefits of programs that might benefit wealthy individuals or corporate interests , they are simply cutting programs for poor people and working people .  that is simply not right .  as my colleague from massachusetts was saying , the irony of it is they are increasing the deficit in order to give more tax breaks for the rich and for the corporate interests .  at the same time , they are increasing the deficit by paying for iraq because none of that is paid for .  none of the war reconstruction in iraq is paid for ; and if you look at these charts , as you were saying , you can see that the very cuts that are being proposed in programs here in the united states , in many cases money is being spent in iraq , deficit spending , to do the same things in iraq that are being cut here .  i do not want to go through the whole thing , but if you look at health care , $ 10 billion in medicaid cuts are proposed by this republican budget ; $ 252 million in cuts for health care professionals ; $ 94 million in cuts to community health clinics in the u.s. in iraq , we get 110 primary health care centers built or renovated , 2 , 000 health educators trained , 32 million children vaccinated .  you can go through this whole list .  mr. speaker , i could not help but remember within a few days of the hurricane when president bush gave a speech , i think from new orleans , and he talked about how they were going to reconstruct the city and provide all of these programs and benefits , and none of it has happened .  it sounded like he was doing a reconstruction program like in iraq , or the marshall plan after world war ii .  now they are proposing cuts in all of the programs that would actually benefit people .  it is not just poor people .  if you look at the things that we are mentioning here for the u.s. versus iraq , i talked about health care .  the republican budget would cut $ 9 billion in student loans , $ 806 million from no child left behind .  that is for all americans .  on the other hand in iraq , they rehabilitated 2 , 717 schools , and 36 , 000 teachers and administrators were trained .  even the environment , everybody breathes the air and drinks the water .  in the u.s. , the republican budget has a $ 200 million cut in clean water state revolving funds , and opens anwr to oil drilling .  in iraq , we spend $ 1 billion for safe drinking water , $ 4 million for marshland restoration .  everybody is drinking the water and benefiting from environmental infrastructure .  it is just really americans versus iraqis , and i am not saying that we should not help the iraqis in some way .  i did not support the war , and i still oppose the war , but i do not mind spending some money to help rebuild iraq , but it is not fair to spend all of this money on iraq and cut money for americans .  look at the infrastructure .  in the u.s. under the republican budget , $ 336 million is cut from the army corps of engineers , including funding for the levee construction in louisiana .  it is no wonder the levee gave .  we did not keep it up .  there is a $ 2.3 million cut from amtrak ; high-speed rail funding is eliminated .  in iraq we are rehabilitating the canal system , including repairs to levees , and rebuilding the iraq railway line .  the gentleman from ohio ( mr. ryan )  talked about prevention before in the context of health care .  it is not just iraq versus america , it is the fact that these cuts are plain stupid .  we talk about prevention in terms of health care , by eliminating community health centers , people go to emergency centers , and it costs more .  an argument could be made if we did not cut funding for the levees in louisiana , we may not even have had the crisis there .  mr. speaker , the budget bill that they want us to vote on , the one we were supposed to vote on last week , cuts funding for levees again , not necessarily the one in new orleans , but other levees in louisiana .  this is part of the funding cuts .  they want to cut levee construction now .  this is not the same one that fell in new orleans .  mr. speaker , i used this analogy last week , and i can not help but repeating it again .  soon after the invasion of iraq , the u.s. invasion , a couple of our republican colleagues went over there .  maybe it was within 6 months of the u.s. invasion .  it was in september of the year after .  they had just come back , the republican colleagues had just come back from iraq , and they had been there on the first day of school .  i will never forget because i was on the floor waiting to do a special order , and three or four of my republican colleagues , they brought back with them the book bags and the pencils .  they had these book bags that were in blue , and they had emblazoned on them the seal of the united states with the eagle .  they were so proud of the fact that every iraqi school child on the opening day of school had received a book bag with the seal of the u.s. , pencils , pads , all kinds of things , free of charge .  i had just come back from approximately the first day of school here in the u.s. , and i had just been to a teacher event at one of my local schools , and the teachers were complaining that the pencils and paper were not provided there , and they had to actually go out , the teachers , and buy pencils and paper and pads and crayons for the children because they were not provided at our public school in my district .  the pride that was on the faces of my republican colleagues for all the wonderful things we were doing in iraq , and i kept saying that was very nice , but we do not have those things here in my district .  it is not right .  it is not fair .  i am not saying again that we should not be helping the iraqis , but it is just not fair that they get this help and we do not .  mr. speaker , if the gentleman will continue to yield , one of the things that the 30-something group has been talking about , and it relates directly to what he said , is this idea that there should be a bipartisan commission in the aftermath of hurricane katrina .  and it is the same principle that the gentleman from massachusetts brought up , that they just do not want any kind of investigation of themselves .  the republicans control the white house , the senate , the house of representative .  they know there are problems that came out of hurricane katrina .  they know they are responsible .  they do not want any investigation by a bipartisan commission because they do not want an investigation of themselves .  they are afraid of what it is going to reveal .  and that is the problem around here .  they do not want oversight .  they do not want accountability .  they do not want any kind of effort on a bipartisan basis , which would happen with the gentleman 's subcommittee , because it might reveal that they have basically created a lot of problems and screwed up on a lot of things .  that is what they are against .  mr. speaker , i thank the distinguished gentleman from michigan for yielding .  i commend the gentleman from michigan for his great leadership , and i thank him for his great leadership on behalf of the american consumer and the american taxpayer .  the gentleman from michigan and the gentleman from virginia with their very wise substitute give a chance to help the consumer and declare energy independence .  i also want to commend the gentleman from michigan ( mr. dingell )  , the distinguished ranking member of the full committee , for his extraordinary leadership on this and so many issues .  also , i salute the gentleman from new york ( mr. boehlert )  , chair of the science committee , for his recognition that this democratic substitute is a better way to go .  mr. speaker , i rise in strong opposition to the republican energy bill .  it is anti-taxpayer .  it is anti-consumer .  and it is anti-environment .  i encourage my colleagues to support the stupak-boucher substitute .  this bill should be called , the republican gifts to special interests bill .  it is a perfect example of the republican culture of cronyism and corruption .  using hurricane katrina as their excuse , the republicans are once again pushing their special interest agenda at the expense of the american people .  americans do not need legislation passed here today to enrich the oil industry .  americans need relief from high georgia prices .  this week , the average price at the pump was $ 2.92 a gallon .  that is 99 cents more than a year ago and 30 cents higher than just pre-katrina .  it is also twice the cost per gallon than the first year when president bush took office .  winter is around the corner , and so are skyrocketing increases in home heating costs .  families who heat with natural gas could see their fuel costs increase more than 70 percent in some parts of the country .  it is astounding .  families are expected to spend nearly three times as much for home heating oil again than they did 4 years ago , the first year president bush took office .  let us get this straight .  price at the pump for the consumer , per gallon of gas , is twice as high as 4 years ago , the first year president bush took office .  for home heating oil , you are expected to pay three times as much as you did 4 years ago , the first year president bush took office .  yet for the second time in 1 month , the republicans have brought a bill to the floor that fails to address price gouging , fails to bring down prices and fails to put us on the road to energy independence .  as with the energy bill passed this summer , this bill ignores the real need of the american people and rewards the greed of special interests .  need or greed , take your choice .  the republicans in this culture of corruption and cronyism came down on the side of greed .  this bill includes all the special favors to the energy industry that were too extreme to be included in the energy bill passed by congress less than 3 months ago .  refinery companies have deliberately closed and consolidated their facilities to drive up profit margins .  they are making enormous profits .  do the american people really believe the right response is to waive environmental laws , brush aside state and local authorities and open up federal lands to new refineries ?  of course not .  but that is the republican approach : greed over need .  republicans blame the clean air act for our record energy costs .  even after removing its most extreme provisions , this bill still includes the so-called bump-up provision , which would expose millions of americans to unhealthy levels of smog for years to come .  once again , greed over need .  our democratic substitute to this bill , introduced again by the gentleman from michigan ( mr. stupak )  and the gentleman from virginia ( mr. boucher )  creates a strategic refinery initiative which would be able to produce 5 percent of the daily demand for gasoline when needed , real solutions to america 's energy crisis .  that is what this substitute contains .  if you are able to produce 5 percent , bump that up to the daily demand , you can reduce the price of gasoline at the pump drastically .  for weeks , democrats have demanded a new federal law to crack down on price gouging by the energy industry .  in fact , the gentleman from michigan ( mr. stupak )  has that very bill .  consumers are being cheated every time they fill up their cars or turn up their thermostat by an industry making record profits .  but this bill does not come close to addressing the severe gouging of consumers .  our democratic substitute provides real protection from price gouging for the first time .  we have been asking for it over and over .  here we have a bill on the floor that will do just that .  the stupak-boucher bill gives the federal trade commission broad authority to crack down on price gouging for a wide range of fuels , for businesses all along the supply chain .  our substitute provides for tough civil penalties and allows attorneys general to enforce the federal law without interfering with state price gouging laws .  mr. speaker , it is time for our nation to make a declaration of energy independence .  this is an urgent issue of national security .  together , america can do better .  we have the resources .  we have the technology .  we have the innovative ideas , and more of them are springing forth all the time .  we can do it right and create millions of new jobs at the same time .  we have an enormous untapped potential in the area of energy efficiency and renewable energy .  by implementing existing technologies and developing new ones in every sector of the economy and american life , we can take a giant step toward energy independence .  this is not just about turning down the thermostat or driving less .  many americans have had to do that for a long time now , they have already taken those steps ; as much as this is about using our ingenuity to make our lives better and more comfortable .  let us make progress .  let us set aside this back-to-the-future energy bill and turn our faces into the 21st century , toward our nation 's true needs .  i urge my colleagues to again reject this special interest republican giveaway act and support the democratic substitute .  together , americans can do better .  mr. speaker , my parliamentary inquiry is : is it not bringing dishonor to the house of representatives for this body to act in the shameful way that it is ?  is it not part of the culture of corruption of the republican party to dishonor the wishes of the american people ?  i have a parliamentary inquiry .  mr. thomas ( during the vote ) .  parliamentary inquiry , mr. speaker .  based upon the statement of the gentleman from maryland that everyone had voted and that therefore the vote should have been closed -- -- mr. speaker , i appreciate the opportunity to address the house again .  unfortunately , we are missing a couple of our standard-bearers who are usually here , our two members from florida , the gentleman from florida ( mr. meek )  and the gentlewoman from florida ( ms. wasserman schultz ) , who are down dealing with the hurricane and the storm down in florida .  so we want to send out to them our thoughts and our prayers .  we are thinking about them and their constituents and all the citizens of florida at this time .  and we are glad they are down there where they should be , with their constituents .  i would also like to say hello briefly , mr. speaker , not only to those citizens of florida but some friends of mine who are paying attention to what is happening here tonight and good friends of mine who are back in ohio now , bill and molly gales , who are watching us , paying attention , trying to understand some of the issues of the day , and i would like to give a shout out , mr. speaker .  but let me say this , mr. speaker , we spent the last hour listening to , quite frankly , a lot of rhetoric , a lot of empty rhetoric .  and normally the 30-something group comes out and we talk about and criticize and critique the performance of the republican majority .  and i want the american people to understand this : the democrats do not have any power in this chamber .  the republican party just spent the last hour blaming the democrats .  like we had any lever of government to pull .  the republican party controls the house by a large margin .  they control the senate .  and the republican party controls the white house .  they control every legislative and executive branch of government in the united states of america right now , federal government .  so to look over here like we are the ones running these huge budget deficits is an absolute joke .  i would like to say , my friends on the other side who were talking about saving money and controlling the deficits that are projected as far as the eye can see , $ 500 billion , i would like to say to our friends , mr. speaker , go to www.thomas.gov and you can get the votes for two particular votes that i think the american people and members of this chamber would be interested in .  go check out h.r. 1 , this is www.thomas.gov , h.r. 1 in the 108th congress .  that is the prescription drug bill .  that is a bill that spent 700-plus billion dollars on the medicare prescription drug program and did absolutely nothing to control the costs of drugs by allowing for reimportation from canada that would drive the costs down , or allow for the secretary of health now , my friends on the other side who have spent the last hour being so critical , i find their names on the `` aye '' column .  there were only 25 republicans who voted against the prescription drug bill .  so the republicans passed a prescription drug bill full of pork that did not control costs .  before i yield to the gentleman , let me first give him a formal 30-something welcome .  do not let the gray hair fool you .  this guy is 39 1/2 .  we are going to have to implement the same rule that we had to implement when the gentleman from new jersey ( mr. pallone )  came .  the gentleman is going to have to pay dues twice to the 30-something group .  i agree with the gentleman 100 percent .  the study that the gentleman just referenced , the economic policy institute , the 30-something group is all about third-party validators .  this is not the meek or ryan or delahunt or pallone institute .  this is the economic policy group , a nonpartisan economic study group saying that the tax cuts were bogus .  a couple of our friends on the other side said , well , the projected budget is going to be $ 100 billion or $ 80 billion less than what they thought it was going to be because the tax cuts are actually working .  what they fail to tell you is that a loophole has been closed .  it sunsetted out last year .  so there was a tax put on a small business , people , that raised money to the tune of $ 80 billion .  do not come in and mislead the american people .  it is not the tax cuts that are working .  the tax cuts are not working .  go ask the workers at delphi if the tax cuts are working .  go ask the workers whose wages have been stagnant the last 30 years if the tax cuts are working .  they want to talk about we want to raise taxes .  they are spending money on the country 's credit card , as my good friend has said .  real quick , i just want to clean this up .  the two bills i want our friends , other members , to go see , go to thomas.gov .  h.r. 1 in the 108th congress was the prescription drug bill which we were lied to about the original price , was supposed to be $ 400 billion .  then they came back months later and said it was $ 700 billion , no controls on the price .  go to the 108th congress , h.r. 1 .  then go in the 109th congress , thomas.gov , h.r. 3893 , our energy bill .  our friends that are so concerned with reining in spending , the republican house passed a bill that has given billions of dollars to the oil companies , and bp 's profits today came out 34 percent higher this quarter .  i mean , give us a break .  the rhetoric is done .  you try to dust off the rhetoric from the 1980s and put it in today 's society , and it just does not work because it just does not make any sense .  if you can hear and see and think , you know what they are saying on the other side is not making sense .  what the democratic proposal is is to balance the budget ; is to implement paygo , which means if you spend money , you have got to pay for it , one way or the other .  our friends , the republican majority , that started out with this big republican revolution that i think has ended up in a republican devolution , would not pass the paygo rules .  we have a plan , you go to the house committee on the budget , to balance the budget .  we retain middle-class tax cuts for working people .  i am not afraid to stand up and say i am going to ask bill gates to pay a little more in taxes .  i am not afraid to say it .  i do not think that is a bold political move , but the wealthiest people are the only ones in this country who have not been asked to sacrifice in some way to pay for the two or three wars that we have going on and the greatest natural and national disaster this country has ever seen .  mr. speaker , if the gentleman would yield briefly , i just want to share a third-party validator that we have as we continue talking about welfare in the united states and what it is being spent on .  this is by cal thomas , who writes a column .  cal thomas , as most of you may know , is one of the conservative columnists in the country .  in his column this week , he says , `` seventy-two percent of farm subsidy money goes to 10 percent of recipients , the richest farmers , partnerships , corporations , estates and other entities. '' cal thomas , third-party validator says too much money going to the big farmers , and this is a big welfare state .  what is cal thomas ' advice to the 30-somethings and the house of representatives ?  cal thomas says , `` here 's a suggestion : do n't start with the poor .  start with the rich. '' cal thomas , one of the top conservatives in the country , is telling the republican congress , the republican senate and the republican president , start cutting the welfare programs for the richest people in this country .  we have been pinned into a corner in this country where the people down in new orleans and those people who do not have and the middle class are somehow to be blamed for our huge deficits when 72 percent of ag money , ag subsidies are going to the top 10 percent of the farmers .  mr. speaker , if the gentleman will yield , i just want to make a point .  the money that is getting cut , and we understand that reform needs to take place and our friends on the other side have not been willing to do it , but to cut $ 94 million in community health care and community health centers , that is preventative medicine .  that investment is ultimately going to save our country money and save our health care system money because those people who will not have access to the community health care centers will end up in an emergency room a week or two later .  instead of going to the community health center with a cold , they are going to go to the emergency room in downtown youngstown or east hartford , connecticut , or wherever they are living , and they are going to walk in with pneumonia ; and it is going to cost the taxpayer more money .  that is poor management .  that is not smart .  that is silly .  no businessperson would make that investment .  basically what we are trying to say is that the republican majority in the house and the senate are not only spending american , hard-working taxpayer dollars to subsidize the most profitable industries in the country , the oil industry , the pharmaceutical industry and the top agricultural , the megafarms .  not only are they doing that , welfare for corporations , and democrats are for ending corporate welfare .  not only have they provided a welfare state for iraq where we are not going to loan them the money and get the money back , welfare to corporations , welfare to iraq , and then we are cutting the programs that just may lead to economic growth in the united states .  we have to jump-start this economy , and we are not going to do it by cutting one of the great investments of high-speed rail .  what a great program for united states of america .  when i was in china , i went to shanghai .  they had a magnetic levitation train .  it is the only one in the world .  it goes almost 280 miles an hour .  you are standing up and you are drinking your coffee .  why is that in shanghai and not in the united states of america ?  look at some of the cuts from the republican study committee .  loans to graduate students , $ 840 million in cuts ; eliminate the national science foundation math and science program grants .  and tuition is going to double in 5 years .  mr. speaker , how about this for short-sightedness .  we are going to cut the centers for disease control .  everybody is talking about the avian flu .  we do not know what to do .  people are making requests of the administration .  i am sorry , but government is the problem , unless somebody needs something .  and i am sorry , but the republican majority has had this house since 1994 .  they have had the senate since 2000 or 2001 , definitely since 2002 , and on and off through the 1990s , and the white house since 2001 .  they can not govern .  mr. speaker , reclaiming my time , the decisions that we need to make have to be focused on what is best for the country , not what is best for one 's political party ; and i think that has really been the problem .  it seems to me that every decision that is made down here by the republican majority is what is best for the republican party , not what is best for the country .  and it is time we start choosing the country over the party if we want to have some success .  and just go through everything that has happened .  everything that has happened with the majority leader has been an attempt to secure power for the party and not do its best for the country .  let us look at the cia leak and the corruption that is going on .  to out a cia agent because their husband disagreed with them on the war is choosing their party and protecting their party over what is best for the country .  and to make cuts in programs that would invest in the american people and lead to economic growth instead of listening to cal thomas , who says cut for the richest people who are getting corporate welfare , they do that because they could then raise money for their party .  and if the republican majority keeps choosing their party over the country , then the country becomes weak ; and a strong america starts right here at home .  mr. speaker , i rise in strong opposition to this bill and in support of the stupak-boucher substitute .  this bill does nothing to help us gain energy independence , to increase refining capacity , or lower prices at the pump .  and no member , and particularly no one who represents the midwest , should vote for this bill .  the federal energy information agency predicted that the price of natural gas would increase by 71 percent in the midwest this winter .  in chicago , the average heating bill is predicted to be $ 1 , 475 per household .  yet , instead of addressing an impending heating crisis and protecting consumers , this bill is filled with giveaways to the same energy companies that are making record profits in the aftermath of the hurricanes .  this bill 's attempt to prevent gasoline price gouging is little more than a charade .  but this bill does not even pretend to prevent natural gas companies from gouging consumers .  even though natural gas prices are four times what they were in 2001 , there is no mention of natural gas in the price gouging section of this bill .  for natural gas suppliers and distributors , this bill is a green light to jack up the prices .  in illinois , to qualify for the low income home energy assistance program , a family of four must earn under $ 29 , 000 a year , under that .  because of increasing energy costs , liheap has covered a smaller share of a family 's average heating bill over the last 4 years , and that share will be lower this year due to these record price spikes .  this winter , millions more americans may find that they can not pay their home heating bills , not just poor americans .  what are we doing to protect them ?  the democratic substitute gives the ftc new authority to prevent and punish corporations that gouge consumers for the oil , gasoline , and natural gas they need to get to work , heat their homes , and run their businesses .  it is the only proposal before the house today that will address the impending heating crisis facing millions of americans this winter .  mr. speaker , we were unprepared for katrina .  we can not let that happen again .  members in this body are faced with a choice : representing consumers and small businesses , or big oil companies .  we should not leave the american people in the cold this winter while energy companies are left with money to burn .  mr. speaker , the gasoline for america 's security act has a nice name , but it does little to help missouri 's farmers and rural commuters who are experiencing record high energy costs .  motorists in missouri and across the nation are paying a premium for gasoline and diesel fuel , especially in the wake of severe weather in the gulf of mexico .  missouri 's fourth congressional district is primarily rural , and residents rely heavily on transportation in going about their daily lives .  this is especially true for farmers who are also facing additional costs for natural gas , propane , fertilizer , and pesticides .  as energy expenses have sky-rocketed over the past few weeks , many missourians have expressed concern and skepticism about high prices and simultaneous reports of record oil industry profits .  in order to make sure consumers are being treated fairly , the federal trade commission and the justice department should be given explicit authority to investigate collusion and price gouging within the oil industry .  penalties must have teeth and must be severe .  and , importantly , the government must be guaranteed broader authority to look into potentially illegal behavior within other energy sectors , at least during times of national emergency .  the bill being considered by the house today contains scant assistance for the rural americans i am privileged to represent .  it will not lower their energy prices and it puts in place weak price gouging standards .  it also does little to promote additional refining capacity , while gutting important environmental safeguards and creating additional corporate tax breaks .  waiving environmental protections and offering federal tax breaks to oil companies will not entice them to build new oil refineries .  while more refineries would certainly help produce more gasoline , oil companies have had the opportunity and financial capability for years to increase their refining capacity .  environmental regulations are not stopping them .  rather , the inability to build profitable refineries has led oil company executives away from constructing or resurrecting them .  an alternative to this bill is being offered by mr. stupak of michigan and others .  the stupak bill would strengthen the hands of the federal trade commission and the justice department , targeting price gouging across the energy spectrum .  it would also help americans who are struggling to deal with high gas prices and bracing for record home heating bills this winter , while creating a strategic refinery reserve to provide additional gas supplies during energy shortages like the one we are currently facing .  i urge my colleagues to oppose the republican bill and support the more wisely drafted alternative .  mr. speaker , i reserve the balance of my time .  mr. speaker , i object to the vote on the ground that a quorum is not present and make the point of order that a quorum is not present .  mr. speaker , today i rise in opposition to the anti-public health , anti-consumer `` gas act. '' the legislation is an insult to the american public which needs real relief , but this is an attack on our public health ; and it is a giveaway to corporate america .  their interests will harm , in my opinion , 5.5 million latinos that live within 10 miles of coal-powered plants and the 68 percent of all african americans that live within 30 miles of a coal-powered plant .  these changes will increase the risk of disease to schoolchildren in texas who are exposed right now to 43.4 million tons of toxic pollutants in just 1 year because of almost 140 nearby industrial facilities .  these changes will increase the risk of disease to over 207 , 000 children who go to schools within a 2-mile radius of a chemical plant or refinery in texas .  these changes will not help construct new refineries or guarantee an increase in refinery capacity and will do nothing to lower the cost of gasoline .  this is a washington bill drafted on k street by those lobbyists and is an attack on our public health .  no state air boards were consulted , no mayors , no city managers , no land use planners , no attorneys general , not even mine from california .  there is a reason why the bill is opposed by the national association of counties , the national league of cities , and nine attorneys general .  the local air pollution program and control officers , the south coast air quality management district , the american lung association , and many others are in opposition to this bill .  it is time that the administration and the republican leadership learn that public health and the environment and the voices of our communities are not exploitable commodities .  i will support the democratic alternative which protects public health , protects consumers , and secures our refineries in times of emergency .  i will not support the underlying legislation which gives americans a false sense of hope and security .  i urge my colleagues to join me in opposition .  america deserves better .  mr. speaker , the gentleman from pennsylvania makes a good point , but if you look at today 's washington post , `` natural gas danger signs , '' they talk about a 90 percent increase in natural gas .  higher costs threaten our economic growth in u.s. manufacturing .  here is usa today : `` staying warm costs up 90 percent more. '' there is no way you are going to vote for the barton bill , the main bill , if you believe the price of natural gas is too high .  if you believe everything the gentleman from pennsylvania said , you would vote against the barton bill , because it does not include natural gas .  only the democratic substitute , the stupak-boucher bill does .  mr. speaker , when the oil refineries raise their rates 255 percent in the last 12 months , that is unconscionably excessive .  well , mr. speaker , if the gentleman will continue to yield , i guess we are going to have to look in the bill , because in the bill we also put in there factors to be considered excessively too much .  if you go to the bottom of page 2 , bottom of page 3 , we put it in there .  our bill says that in 90 days the ftc has to define it for us .  i will give the gentleman examples .  i think excessive is more than reasonable .  when it is more than reasonable pricing .  a great example is georgia .  why did it go up $ 6 a gallon after hurricane katrina ?  was that reasonable , when the rest of the nation was about $ 3 ?  that is excessive .  that is unconscionable .  then the president , much like the manager 's bill , and much like excessive , and the gentleman 's bill has the same language basically because you copied our bill , so you can go outside the area .  the president has the authority to go outside the area , just like he does in the underlying area .  and getting back to the ftc and what is excessive , again just like your bill , you used different words , but you allow the ftc to define it .  we gave more than you gave .  we actually gave concrete factors to consider .  in answer to the gentleman 's last question , if you look at page 4 , we have rulemaking in there , where the ftc shall promulgate the rules necessary and appropriate to enforce .  under the rulemaking process , you , myself , just about all of us have an opportunity to put in our two cents ' worth on what we feel may be excessive , market manipulation , or price gouging .  so , again , if you want to dwell on a word or two , i think all americans know when they are being excessively gouged at the pump .  go ahead .  i will try to answer it .  it is just like the strategic petroleum reserve ; it is up to the secretary to approve it .  would the federal government and federal employees operate it ?  no .  much like we did in the energy bill for nuclear .  let us put it up and build it , but let someone else operate it and manage it .  they would operate around the clock .  mr. chairman , if you look on page 18 on how it would be implemented , it is starting on line 9 , we have the implementation plan , and it must be established within 2 years and how they are going to do it .  but we would operate it year-round .  the refined product would go to , without an energy declaration by the president , refined product would go to the military to meet their military needs .  at times of emergency , then we would shift to give relief at home at the pump for the american people .  `` shall transmit the plan to congress for establishment and operation of the strategic refinery reserve , '' lines 11 and 12 .  again , he will submit his plan , whoever the secretary is .  they may have a different idea , but they must submit it to the congress so we can see .  it is just like spr , subject to appropriation , subject to congressional oversight .  mr. speaker , i yield the balance of my time to the gentlewoman from california ( ms. pelosi )  , our democratic leader , who has been so supportive in our efforts to make sure that americans get a fair shake at the gas pump and when they heat their homes this winter and go to work each and every day .  she has been there fighting for the american people .  mr. speaker , i demand a recorded vote .  mr. speaker , i rise in strong opposition to this bill today .  this so-called gas act has nothing to do with bringing the prices of gasoline down -- its ostensible purpose -- and everything to do with the republican leadership overreaching , exploiting the catastrophes of hurricanes katrina and rita to their own advantage .  as i said earlier this year when the house passed the energy policy act , there is nothing i 'd rather vote for than a balanced energy bill that sets us on a forward-looking course -- one that acknowledges that this country is overly dependent on a single energy source -- fossil fuels -- to the detriment of our environment , our national security , and our economy .  but like its predecessor , this bill is far from balanced .  although there is bipartisan recognition that this bill should -- at a minimum -- address price-gouging that occurred in the wake of katrina , this bill 's price-gouging provisions are weak .  they give the federal trade commission ( ftc ) authority to pursue price gouging by sellers of gasoline or diesel fuel only in those areas where a natural disaster has occurred .  and the provisions are directed at small gas station owners rather than at refiners , when recent studies show that refineries ' prices have increased 255 percent -- as compared to an increase of retailers ' margin of about 5 percent .  the bill also includes subsidies for oil companies if a refinery is delayed because of litigation , even if the litigation results from the oil company violating the law .  we should n't be using taxpayer dollars to help profitable oil companies evade local , state , and federal laws and regulations .  more problematic , the bill claims to solve a problem that does n't exist .  the republicans would have us believe that environmental permit requirements are to blame for the fact that no new refineries have been built since 1976 .  in fact , the only refinery that industry has attempted to build since 1976 -- a facility in arizona -- received its permit in just nine months .  the truth is that over the last ten years , 30 existing refineries have been closed , but our refining capacity has been increasing .  refining capacity has become tight in recent years -- so now companies can use their substantial profits to increase that capacity .  but there is no reason to think that market forces can not solve the current problem , and no reason to believe that `` burdensome '' environmental rules had anything to do with industry decisions not to add to refining capacity in recent years .  the republicans tell us we need a smaller federal government and greater local government control .  yet this bill is yet another example of where their message does n't mesh with reality .  the reality is that this bill preempts state and local government responsibilities and relaxes environmental laws .  the national association of counties , national conference of state legislatures , national league of cities , and u.s. conference of mayors oppose this bill -- and for good reason. '' h.r. 3893 gives federal bureaucrats at the department of energy sole authority over the location of new refineries , taking away the primary permitting and oversight authority from all other state and local agencies .  the bill also gives the d.c .  appeals court exclusive jurisdiction over states ' actions related to refineries or pipelines , as opposed to allowing state and local agencies review refinery and pipeline construction .  and even though the energy bill passed earlier this year limited the number of gasoline and diesel fuel blends , h.r. 3893 would limit them even further , undermining the ability of states and localities that already can not meet national air quality goals to clean up the air their constituents breathe .  the bill instructs the president to designate sites on federal lands , including closed military installations , for the purposes of siting a refinery .  the bill excludes national parks , national monuments , and wilderness areas , but wildlife refuges and wilderness-quality lands such as wilderness study areas and national forest roadless areas are fair game .  i share the concerns of thomas markham , the executive director of the lowry redevelopment authority in colorado who also serves as the president of the association of defense communities , about how this provision might affect former military bases .  as he writes in a letter on behalf of the adc , `` shifting the responsibility to the federal government for planning how closed military installation will be reused would interfere with the time-tested approach developed over the past two decades .  the conversion of military property to civilian uses is the responsibility of the community .  communities must be in charge when planning for life after closure. '' i realize that the rule as adopted today improved the bill language slightly to give communities more voice in the proposed process .  but the essence of the bill language is the same .  again , this provision is a solution in search of a problem .  there is nothing in the brac statute or in new dod regulations that prevents a local community , through its redevelopment authority , from building or permitting an oil refinery on a military base .  and then there are the things the bill would not do .  it fails on the `` demand side '' by not increasing vehicle fuel economy standards , which have been frozen since 1996 .  raising cafe standards is the single biggest step we can take to reduce oil consumption , since about half of the oil used in the u.s. goes into the gas tanks of our passenger vehicles .  i support legislation that would actually help lower gas prices .  i support the substitute introduced by representative bart stupak that gives explicit authority to the ftc to define , for the first time , price gouging -- not just for gasoline and diesel , but for natural gas , home heating oil , and propane .  and the provisions are directed at the entire chain of gasoline production and distribution , including refineries .  the substitute also authorizes new civil penalties of up to three times the amount of unjust profits gained by companies who engage in price gouging .  the substitute would also increase our nation 's refinery capacity by establishing a federal strategic refinery reserve , patterned after the strategic petroleum reserve , with capacity equal to 5 percent of the total u.s. demand for gasoline , home heating oil and other refined petroleum products .  hurricanes katrina and rita did highlight a serious problem this country faces -- our excessive reliance on fossil fuels .  but the solution is n't to give still more incentives to oil and gas companies to drill .  instead , we should act to wean our nation from its dependence on fossil fuels , especially foreign oil .  the republican leadership claims this bill will help us reduce our dependence on foreign oil by stimulating domestic development and production .  yet with only 3 % of the world 's known oil reserves , we are not in a position to solve our energy vulnerability by drilling at home .  our excessive dependence on fossil energy is a pressing matter of national security .  we have an energy security crisis .  we need to think anew to devise an energy security strategy that will give future generations of americans an economy less dependent on oil and fossil fuels .  unfortunately , this bill does not even begin to address this problem .  for that reason , i can not vote for it .  mr. speaker , i rise in strong opposition to h.r. 3893 , which in many ways is little more than a hastily assembled -- and opportunistically revived -- retread of discarded ideas from past energy debates .  mr. speaker , our constituents are asking for transparency in markets and price relief at the pump .  so what does this bill do ?  rather than empowering the ftc to launch an aggressive investigation into recent reports of market manipulation , this legislation actually reduces the maximum penalty for price gouging from $ 11 , 000 per incident to $ 11 , 000 per day .  so much for strengthening transparency and deterrence .  instead of ensuring additional refining capacity , this bill blames and then proposes to eliminate key provisions of the clean air act -- as if public health protections are the barrier to additional refining capacity .  they are not .  the government accountability office ( gao ) has concluded -- and industry representatives concede -- that the decisive factor is economics .  indeed , far from cheering this legislation , attorneys general from across the nation are sounding the alarm that h.r. 3893 will cripple states ' ability to meet basic clean air standards for our citizens .  finally , not content to relieve industry of its environmental obligations , h.r. 3893 extends the gravy train begun several months ago by lavishing oil companies with an additional $ 1.5 billion over and above the $ 4 billion they just received under the last energy bill .  this -- during a time of record deficits and industry profits .  mr. speaker , we do indeed have an energy crisis in this country -- one that can not begin to be solved by the kind of special interest wish list being passed off as legislation today .  in the near term , we need to restore confidence and transparency to the marketplace by taking decisive steps to punish and deter market manipulation where necessary .  next , it is imperative we make long overdue improvements in automobile fuel economy while diversifying our fuel mix to include alternatives like cellulosic ethanol and biodiesel .  finally , we need to invest in the next generation of 21st century technologies that create jobs , protect the environment and move us towards energy independence .  i ask my colleagues to embrace that vision and to oppose this bill .  mr. chairman , i rise in strong opposition to h.r. 3893 and in strong support of the stupak substitute .  the gulf coast of the united states was devastated by a catastrophic hurricane .  hundreds of thousands of americans lost their homes and their possessions .  gasoline prices jumped 46 cents per gallon overnight .  price gouging was rampant .  the big oil companies charged more , simply because they could .  the oil companies took shameless advantage of the disaster , and now washington republicans are trying to do the very same thing .  the republican leadership is trying to use this tragedy and missouri to undermine our environmental laws and pass more special interest giveaways to the oil industry .  it wants to exploit hurricane katrina for a special interest bonanza .  this is the legislative equivalent of price gouging , and it is unconscionable .  the bill before us is supposed to be a response to hurricane katrina .  it is supposed to respond to the damage done to our nation 's energy infrastructure and address the nation 's runaway energy prices , but what it does is give the oil companies even more taxpayer subsidies and exemptions from environmental laws , and the bill is not even limited to the oil industry .  if this bill becomes law , the entire eastern half of the united states can suffer more pollution for years to come .  the ideas in this bill are not new .  they are the same egregious environmental assaults that republicans in congress have tried unsuccessfully to pass for years .  all that is new is the rationale .  there is no excuse for this legislation to allow children with asthma to have to suffer more medical problems on the eastern coast of the united states in order to address a tragedy in the gulf coast of the united states .  ten years ago , the gentleman from texas ( mr. delay )  introduced legislation to repeal the clean air act piece by piece .  today , washington republicans are using hurricanes as a cover to enact his radical agenda .  these were very bad ideas when they were first proposed .  to pass them now in the guise of helping hurricane victims would be shameful .  i do have an inquiry .  when there is a markup without members having more than a day to review it ; when the bill is rewritten and put on the house floor without members having had a chance to review it ; when the vote is held open a long period of time after the time has expired , does that not make the house a banana republic ?  after the votes have been cast , is it not appropriate to announce the votes ?  mr. speaker , i thank the gentleman for yielding me this time .  mr. speaker , i rise in strong opposition to this bill , the so-called gasoline for america 's security act .  now , this is not a partisan rant .  i am a democrat , but i supported the last energy bill .  it had considerable merit and a few flaws .  this bill is very flawed and has very little merit .  let us talk about refineries .  over the past 20 years , u.s. demand has increased 20 percent .  no new refineries have been built .  in fact , refining capacity has declined by 10 percent .  but contrary to what my colleagues just heard , there are no barriers stopping the refining industry from building new refineries and expanding capacity .  in fact , the key thing people need to understand in this debate is that the profit margins for the refineries has gone up 255 percent .  they are making more money than anybody else .  so there is no reason why we should give them some big subsidy or big benefit to encourage them to build refinery capacity .  this bill really is outrageous in terms of having the taxpayers pay the refineries to cover their unanticipated costs .  it is in the bill and it is called stand-by support , stand-by support .  what that means is if they encounter some sort of reasonable delay , government regulation , or something like that , and they suffer losses and they can not open on time or they are delayed in their operations , we , the taxpayer , get to pay for that .  that is not unusual .  that is not a crisis situation .  that is not the airlines after september 11 .  that is not an unusually high-risk situation .  these are delays in the normal course of business ; but , yet , this bill would have the taxpayer pay for those losses , and that does not make sense .  let me take a minute and talk about price gouging .  now , they came out of committee with a very limited bill that basically talked about gasoline , and now they say , well , we want to broaden it a little bit .  let me suggest that the broadest possible protection for the american people in terms of price gouging comes from the democratic substitute .  it gives the broadest jurisdiction over the most types of fuel , including propane , home heating oil , crude oil .  that is where we need to be , not with the limited approach of the republicans .  they also do not deal with market manipulation , and market manipulation is where the consumer takes the hit .  i urge rejection of the republican bill and adoption of the democratic alternative .  mr. speaker , since the 1973 energy crisis , we are no more energy independent now than we were then , and this legislation will do nothing to resolve this nation 's bankrupt energy policy .  for those of you who support federalism , this measure goes in opposition to state rights !  our current energy policy is bankrupt .  if this congress is to pass a real energy policy , here are some things what we must do : open up anwr ; invest the revenue into renewable energy resources ; and provide incentives to promote the ingenuity of americans to develop energy measures that are progressive and will rid us of energy dependence .  the president has it right , we must conserve , but we must go further like improve cafe standards and provide incentives to build a high speed rail network .  conservation is an american value , and it is lacking from this bill .  this congress must craft a real energy policy that goes beyond the status quo .  therefore , i urge that we vote down this measure , and support the democratic substitute .  mr. speaker , i want to address a serious problem with the underlying bill , and that is that it relies exclusively on the federal trade commission and its willingness and ability and resources to enforce the price gouging remedy in the bill .  i think we should all remember this is the same ftc that said , we do not have any authority to investigate price gouging in this area ; we do not need any authority in this area .  everything is just fine , thank you very much ; and then , when pressed further , said we do not want any authority in this area because we will just make a bad situation worse .  well , mr. speaker , relying on a sorry bunch of people that do not know their job , do not care about their job , and do not believe in their job is like going hunting and having to tote the dog .  our substitute corrects this problem by giving the states attorneys general the same authority to enforce the price gouging remedies that we give the ftc .  the attorneys general of our states are elected by our constituents , they know the conditions in their states better than we do , they have the resources and the discretion under the substitute to decide whether or not it is in the best interest of their constituents , our constituents , for them to act when we do not .  this is federalism at its best .  i urge everybody to support the substitute for this reason , if none other .  any attorney general doing something is better than the ftc doing nothing .  mr. speaker , there is no doubt that the entire nation is paying a price for the astronomical costs of oil and gasoline , and , mr. speaker , pennsylvanians are no exception .  just yesterday , philadelphia residents were told that their home heating bills would increase by 19.4 percent .  that comes on top of double-digit price increases that they had to absorb last year , and it means they will pay on average an additional $ 335 to heat their homes this winter .  winter can be very cold in pennsylvania , and if congress fails to take immediate action , some of my constituents will simply not have enough money to pay these high prices and may be forced to choose between heating their homes and putting food on their table .  that , mr. speaker , is a decision that no american should be forced to make .  and it is more than just home heating costs .  in the last 60 days , it has gotten a whole lot more expensive to drive to and from work , with the price of gasoline going up .  it rose about 55 cents in just the last 2 months .  higher home heating costs , higher gas prices , these are daily expenses for most americans , and they have real consequences for families across this nation and to our national economy .  the bill under consideration today is simply another giveaway for special interests , and it comes at the expense of hardworking americans .  the gentleman from new york ( mr. bishop )  and i stand here today offering a way to give the federal government the authority to investigate and punish those using anti-competitive practices .  it ensures immediate action to address the concerns of our constituents suffering from the high price of energy .  support the bishop motion to recommit and report this bill back to committee so we can adequately address price gouging and reduce costs for everyday americans .  mr. speaker , i thank the gentlewoman from new york for yielding me this time .  i rise today in opposition to the rule and the underlying bill , h.r. 3893 .  hurricane katrina highlighted the failure of the republican leadership 's first attempt to create a national energy policy .  we now have a second chance to craft a forward-looking strategic plan .  unfortunately , h.r. 3893 fails to do this .  instead of tackling america 's very serious energy challenges , we are looking at the cast-asides from the earlier legislation .  i therefore urge my colleagues to support the substitute .  every american now clearly sees that our energy policy affects everything , from a family 's monthly budget to our national security .  my constituents , like the other members , are paying over $ 3 a gallon at the pump .  yet h.r. 3893 does not include price gouging provisions that would sufficiently protect american consumers , particularly when we have oil companies making as much as $ 80 million a day .  we owe our constituents more than empty promises on high gas prices .  and we can do this with the substitute .  it gives the ftc real authority to investigate the energy supply chain .  the substitute provides for significant fines that actually have the power to deter companies from gouging consumers .  h.r. 3893 's shortcomings are not exclusive to its attempts at immediate relief .  the legislation also fails to address our nation 's long-term needs .  constructing new facilities would increase the nation 's capacity to process crude oil and soften the effects of future supply disruptions , but the oil refiners are not interested in incentives to do so .  in fact , they have minimized capacity to maximize profit .  again , congress has a responsible alternative : establish a strategic refinery reserve , a logical complement to the existing strategic petroleum reserve .  this would give us the increased flexibility and control to respond to future energy disruptions .  but this legislation fails to do that ; and worse still , it ignores the larger causes of our energy security .  a forward-looking energy policy should curb our reliance on unstable foreign oil markets and accelerate research for alternative sources of energy .  this bill takes only nominal steps toward that goal .  there is an almost laughable $ 2.5 million for an education program and encouragement to federal agencies to buy energy-efficient light bulbs .  this is not exactly the bold out-of-the-box thinking that will free the next generation from dependence on foreign sources of energy .  congress needs to pause and examine our energy stance in a long-term strategic manner .  we owe that to our children and our grandchildren .  i urge my colleagues to vote against the rule and reject this opportunistic legislation .  mr. chairman , i yield myself the balance of my time .  mr. chairman , my friend from utah ( mr. cannon )  should be writing advertisements for the fast food industry .  throwing out red herrings , probably which would not give us obesity , about families becoming millionaires and all this stuff .  it is just a side show .  we are talking about young children .  sure , they ought to make the right choice and , sure , their parents ought to make the right choices ; but the pressure is on them through television .  parents can not always be there .  the schools are bringing in the fast food restaurants so they can make some more money and they encourage it .  and lastly and most importantly , the advertising that is aimed at these children : where is the responsibility for the adults who are running these advertisements ?  they are aimed at our children .  mr. chairman , i demand a recorded vote .  mr. chairman , i rise today to express my concern that we are again dealing with a notion that there is a crisis in our courts with obesity lawsuits .  h.r. 554 , the so-called `` personal responsibility in food consumption act '' is a measure that seeks to give federal immunity to food manufacturers , sellers , and advertisers for obesity-related claims .  the reality is there is only one such pending suit in the entire country , so i am hard pressed to see why we need to take up this measure today , especially since there are so many other important issues we need to address .  i do not think it is the role of the united states congress to intervene in every individual and private issue in america .  our nation is plagued by childhood obesity and heart disease , and we should be looking into real solutions to this problem , we should not be focusing our efforts on getting rid of one lawsuit currently pending against a fast food outlet .  furthermore , the language in h.r. 554 is so broad it would cut off legitimate claims against the food industry , even where the industry acted to deceive the public and even where it violated state or federal law .  for instance , those in the food industry who fraudulently or deceptively market or sell low-fat products that are not really low-fat should be held accountable but this measure would let them off the hook .  lawsuits aimed at unscrupulous tactics help to change the behavior of the bad actors in the industry we should allow our legal system to process these legitimate cases .  mr. chairman , our legal system has multiple procedural safeguards to ensure that frivolous litigation is thrown out and that meritorious claims are preserved .  that is why i oppose h.r. 554 .  mr. speaker , i rise to join many of my colleagues in strongly opposing the restrictive rule set forth on h.r. 554 , the `` the personal responsibility in food consumption act of 2005. '' as you know , in light of the world we live and the importance of nutrition , this is a very important piece of legislation .  having such a restrictive rule truly goes too far and limits the protections of the american people .  it goes without saying ; this bill is drafted so broadly , it would immunize defendants for negligent and reckless behavior , including mislabeling of food products .  i also object to the fact that the legislation applies retroactively , and is written for the benefit of a single special interest -- the fast food industry .  third , i believe the legislation constitutes an unwarranted and hastily considered affront on our system of federalism .  in closing , let me note that while this issue may be important , there are far more urgent issues we need to be focusing on at this time .  the aftermath of hurricanes katrina and rita , where thousands lost their homes and hundreds lost their lives .  unfortunately , those who were impacted the most were children .  for example , many children lost 1 or both parents or a guardian as a result of hurricane katrina and rita .  this is where our thoughts and legislative actions need to be .  in addition , the earthquake registering 7.6 in magnitude that struck pakistan has caused major devastation in the region .  while the numbers are still coming in , it has been estimated that 23 , 000 have died and at least 47 , 000 have been injured .  there have also been a historical number of children impacted by this massive earthquake .  those impacted have no access to clean drinking water , making them more vulnerable to disease and other infections .  mr. chairman , i demand a recorded vote .  madam chairman , i thank the gentleman for yielding me time .  madam chairman , in addition to the violation of principles of federalism outlined by my colleague from north carolina , this piece of legislation is another piece in which we are taking upon ourselves the right to try a case in the legislative branch instead of respecting the separation of powers by allowing cases to be tried in the judicial branch where they belong .  instead of respecting separation of powers and honoring the rule of law and standing behind the principle that laws should be applied equally to all , we are once again giving special treatment to special cases .  the majority in congress has apparently already decided the proper outcome of these cases and is adjusting the law accordingly just for these cases , rather than trusting our laws and our courts to hear evidence from both sides and decide the cases on their merits .  if these are losing cases , then let the judicial process make that decision .  even if they are frivolous cases , the judicial branch has ways to sanction people for bringing frivolous cases ; but once again , special interests are receiving , in these cases , special treatment .  instead of having to go through the courts like everybody else , where they do not know the outcome of the case until evidence is presented and the law is applied , these defendants will get to try their cases in the legislative branch , where popularity and politics prevail .  even financial contributions are allowed .  meanwhile , everyone else without special privileges is stuck trying their cases in the courts , where they have an unbiased judge and jury , instead of favorable politicians , and they are stuck with the same law that applies to everybody else .  this is not the only recent example of special treatment .  just a few months ago , we changed the law for terri schiavo because her parents knew how to reach someone in congress ; and we ignored the multitude of judicial decisions that had already been decided , and we changed the law for that case , not cases like that , just for that case .  a few years ago , in a child custody case in the washington , dc , area that case was decided by special legislative language in a transportation appropriations bill .  the committee on education and the workforce likewise considered a case on appeal between the department of labor and a bank and voted to retroactively change the law to fix the result on behalf of the bank .  later today , as my colleague from north carolina has pointed out , the house will probably pass legislation to fix the result in firearms legislation so that the firearms industry will get to try their cases and their issues in the legislative branch , rather than being stuck with the law that applies to everybody else .  mr. chairman , trying cases in the legislative branch is bad policy .  we should honor the rule of law and apply the law in all cases .  there will always be special interests , but we should not make special laws for those who can get to a congressman to introduce a bill on their behalf .  let us honor and respect the rule of law to be applied equally to all and reject this legislation .  mr. chairman , i appreciate this discussion today .  the points i want to make are really more in the spirit of questions .  i come out of a state legislative body where the proponents of a bill such as the gentleman from wisconsin would have to undergo a rigorous , almost cross-examination .  we function here differently .  but i do have some questions , and i think i will just present them in my comments and if somebody wants to comment on them they can .  i heard one of the previous speakers say , well , this is a simple bill .  if you eat something and get fat , you should be responsible for it .  i think that is the attitude of the great majority of americans , that you should be responsible for what you eat .  but i want to make two broad points .  first of all , i want to read the definition of food , and it refers to another section of code .  it is very short .  this is from section 201 ( f ) , 21 u.s.c .  301 , section 201 ( f ) .  `` the term `food ' means ( 1 ) articles used for food or drink for man or other animals , ( 2 ) , chewing gum , and ( 3 ) articles used for components of any such article. '' so we are having a discussion here today about the fact , as the previous speaker had said , it is simple , you eat , you get fat , you should be responsible .  the problem is , this bill language makes no reference to only the caloric containing components of food .  it is very deliberately written i believe to include all food additives , no matter how small amounts , and the fact that the great majority of food additives have zero caloric intake and would have no relationship to obesity , i think that is a flaw in the bill .  that leads to the second point .  the bill specifically mentions weight gain and obesity .  well , i think most of us have a sense of what obesity is .  weight gain is a whole different issue , and weight gain may occur not from obesity , not from getting fat , not from putting on too many calories ; weight gain can occur for a variety of medical reasons related to a variety of different causes .  for example , i mean probably all of us have had a mom or a grandmom or an uncle to whom we say , hey , i noticed your legs are swelling again .  fluid retention .  fluid retention .  now , that can be from a variety of causes .  that is not from increased caloric intake .  that could have been , for example , from a food additive , maybe a cause that was not known to the public of some kind of additive in something that they had eaten or drank .  it may have been something that interfered with one of their medications and led to fluid retention .  i am just making up hypotheticals here .  or , the hypothetical , perhaps you have something that is actually a heart poison from some food additive that has no calories in it , zero calories in it , but over a period of time does bad things to the ability of under this bill , which i believe is so broadly written , it would include those kinds of situations .  the word `` calorie '' or `` caloric intake '' or `` caloric content '' is nowhere in this bill , and i again refer my colleagues , it is not in the bill itself , you have to go to the code , the term `` food '' means , articles used for food or drink for man or other animals , chewing gum , and articles used for components of any such article .  anything you drink , anything in it , regardless of caloric intake , is covered by this bill .  anything that leads to weight gain is covered by this bill , even if it has nothing to do with caloric intake .  i think that is far abroad .  i think this is probably one of the reasons why it died in the senate and will die again , but i would encourage people to look at these kinds of details if there is intent to move this bill forward .  mr. chairman , i rise in opposition to the personal responsibility in food consumption act because i do n't think that any industry should have the right to conduct its business without the oversight of the judicial system .  what the lawyer-bashers do n't want you to know is that frivolous lawsuits , by definition , get thrown out of court .  in other words , the much-feared million-dollar settlement for someone who eats 12 big macs a day is not going to happen .  that 's why there are only a few obesity cases in court right now and why the only reason we 're considering this bill today is because the well-heeled mcdonald 's corporation does n't want to face a legitimate lawsuit for false advertising .  many of the pending cases are for false advertising , claiming food is low fat when it 's really not , and this bill is so broadly worded that it would preclude such cases from going forward .  the threat of legitimate lawsuits against fast-food corporations is as much a part of creating social change as is the threat of a congressional investigation .  i believe that both are equally legitimate and democratic .  we would n't want judges to ban us from holding hearings and nor should we ban them from hearing cases even more important than the issue of obesity or congressional meddling in the judicial branch is the fundamental right of every american to have their day in court .  even if you eat 12 big macs a day , you have a right to plead your case before a judge .  and the judge has the right to throw the case out , but congress has no business preemptively closing the courthouse doors to a particular group of americans .  madam chairman , i yield myself such time as i may consume .  madam chairman , i rise in opposition to this legislation .  and as i said the last time we debated it , i do not rise because i am a supporter of frivolous lawsuits or lawsuits even that some of the people have used the legal system to pursue .  i rise in opposition to the bill because i think it is an overreaction ; and , indeed , i think it is perhaps an ultimate attestation to the fact that many of my colleagues have lost confidence and faith in the legal system on the one hand or that , regardless of what the legal system does , if it does not yield for them the result that they are seeking , they are willing to compromise any principle that they have professed to stand for to achieve the result that they wish to achieve .  h.r. 554 goes much further than its stated purpose of banning the small handful of private suits brought against the food industry .  it also bans suits for harm caused by dietary supplements and mislabeling , which have nothing to do with excess food consumption ; and it would prevent state law enforcement officials from bringing legal claims to enforce their own consumer protection laws .  simply look at the provisions of the bill .  section 4 ( 5 ) would prevent any legal action related to any `` health condition that is associated with a person 's weight gain or obesity. '' as a result , the bill would prevent persons who develop heart disease and diabetes from dietary supplements such as ephedra and phen-fen from being able to obtain redress if they gained weight .  even worse , the bill bans these lawsuits in a retroactive way .  so it would throw out dozens of ephedra and phen-fen cases currently pending before courts .  this is a far cry from the concerns that led to this legislation originally , some of which i have the same concerns about .  h.r. 554 would also prevent state law enforcement officials from enforcing their own laws .  under section 4 ( 3 ) , the bill applies to legal actions brought by any `` person , '' and the term `` person '' is defined to include any `` governmental entity. '' that means states attorneys general will be prevented from pursuing actions for deceptive practices and false advertising and other practices that are illegal against the food industry .  again , this is a vast departure from most of the so-called tort reform bills considered by the congress , which are drafted to apply to private lawsuits , and is a vast departure from the original purpose of this bill and the problems it was designed to deal with .  since the predecessor to h.r. 554 was first introduced last term , 18 state legislatures have enacted so-called cheeseburger laws to prohibit certain claims from their courts .  while most of those enacted apply retroactively , others , that is , kansas , arizona , colorado , do not .  some provide for a stay of discovery ; others do not .  some establish affirmative defenses ; others do not .  that is our state law taking effect .  in short , in the considered judgment of each of these 18 state legislatures , laws have been enacted that best serve their states .  the bill completely preempts those laws and brings to a screeching halt the work of 26 other states that have been working on pending legislation .  it also disrupts the process in some states that have combined obesity bills with menu labeling requirements as part of their overall health enhancing legislative scheme .  what is the price that we are willing to pay to get the result that we are seeking ?  have we lost confidence in our state and federal court systems that have systematically thrown out most of the lawsuits that have been filed against the food industry using this `` fat theory , '' as it is commonly referred to ?  have we lost confidence in our whole federalist form of government in which tort law has been particularly the province of the states ?  have we lost confidence in our state legislatures that are in the middle of responding in their particular states to any problems that may be on the horizon in this area ?  we have instead cast ourselves as the imperial congress because the same people who came to this congress , saying that they believe in states rights , have now shown they do not care about states rights .  what they want is a result that they can control and they can dictate .  that is really what this bill is about , and it is unfortunately not only this bill .  there is another bill right behind this one that will be up today or tomorrow that does the same thing in the gun context .  so i do not think we are going to hear a lot of people out here talking about this bill today .  i do not see many people on the floor .  it will be like a tree falling in the forest .  we do not know whether it is having any impact out there or not .  we will pass it out of here .  it will become a political vehicle to cozy up to the food industry , but at what price ?  at what price ?  i would just say the people who maintain that h.r. 554 is necessary to make people responsible for their own choices and to thwart the unwarranted imposition of legal costs and fees on the food industry are just not being upfront with us about this one .  this bill insulates an entire industry from liability ; and more importantly , it undermines our state judicial and legislative systems that should be and are in the process of dealing with this to the extent that they have identified it as a problem .  in that sense , the bill represents yet another arrogant attempt by this congress to impose its will on the states , and i urge my colleagues to get a grip and understand what we are about to do here .  there are some things that are more important , and our judicial system is working its way through these cases , is dismissing them where they need to be dismissed ; and where that is not happening , our state legislatures are taking care of this problem .  this is not a federal issue , nor should it be .  i urge opposition to the bill .  madam chairman , i reserve the balance of my time .  mr. chairman , i reserve the balance of my time .  mr. chairman , i yield myself such time as i may consume .  this is where i think we are .  some of us are frustrated by some of the litigation that has taken place in this area .  i said it when we debated this bill the last time on the floor .  i am not a fan of fat litigation either , but sometimes we have to be patient enough in a legislative body to let the institutions that are supposed to work , work .  they are working .  most of the lawsuits that have been filed in this area have been dismissed .  most of them have been dismissed .  that is what the courts are for .  we do not always get the result we want , but the courts are there to make a determination of what results are appropriate and not under the laws that exist .  the state legislatures are responding .  mr. chairman , there are 26 pending laws out there in the states .  a number of them have different components , different nuances .  some of them are retroactive , some of them are not .  whatever happened to our belief that the state legislatures , the states are a laboratory of good legislation ?  i thought that is what my colleagues who are supporting this bill believed in more heartily than anything else they came to congress to talk about .  when it is convenient for them , when it is convenient for them , there is no more important mantra to them than the mantra of states rights .  what are we doing to states rights here , in an area that throughout history has been the province of the states ?  i do not understand .  we can not be so intent on getting a particular result , so results-oriented that we disregard everything that we have set up in place to deal with problems of this kind : our judiciary , our state legislatures , our common sense .  mr. chairman , the gentleman raises an interesting point that it would be a violation of law .  a lot of times these are not violations of law because there are no laws that pertain .  mr. chairman , i demand a recorded vote .  mr. speaker , this rule , house resolution 494 , will allow the house to take up a bill limiting civil liability for the food and restaurant industry from obesity lawsuits .  we have already debated this legislation once .  we now have precious few legislative days left on the calendar and an ever-expanding list of legislative priorities , yet the majority leadership has decided to take up a bill that preempts a handful of obesity lawsuits that are already being effectively handled in the courts .  given that , is this really the most pressing issue facing the american people ?  the courts are working fine .  this bill is simply unnecessary .  here is just a short list of issues we might be addressing today : the debt , the trade deficit , iraq , housing for katrina victims , the bird flu , port security , border security , nuclear plant security , and energy independence .  i am sure the american people would appreciate a debate on any of those issues over what we are doing today .  in touting the merits of h.r. 554 , my colleagues on the other side of the aisle have cited the need for american people to take responsibility for what they eat and how they live .  i very much agree .  however , i would respectfully submit that maybe it is also time that congress starts taking some responsibility for the challenges facing the american people .  the disconnect between the content of this legislation and the concerns of our constituents would be humorous if it were not so disturbing .  mr. speaker , obesity is one of the great health epidemics in the united states , and as today 's debate will show , it continues to go ignored .  if you talk to any health professional in the country , whether it be the director of the national institutes of health or a nurse at a local clinic , they will tell you that our health care system is on an unsustainable path , especially when it comes to obesity .  obesity is the number one preventable cause of death in america .  according to the rand corporation , obesity will account for 20 percent of all health care costs by 2020 if we do not change course .  this challenge demands responsible , forward-looking leadership .  as members of congress , we need to take personal responsibility for the trajectory of the health care system in the united states .  it would be cheaper to prevent this train wreck now than to wait for obesity to overwhelm the capacity of our health care system .  our citizens are hungry for leadership , and they are not getting any .  the obesity epidemic in the united states should spur this congress into action .  since 1980 , childhood obesity rates have more than doubled among preschoolers and adolescents .  obesity among children ages 6 to 11 has more than tripled .  overweight children have a 70 percent chance of being overweight as adults , facing higher risks for many diseases , such as heart disease , cancer , stroke , and diabetes .  i recently visited a dialysis center in my hometown of sacramento , california , earlier this year .  many patients there had diabetes .  mr. speaker , diabetes is a terrible disease .  in its late stages it limits terribly one 's quality of life .  we need to be doing more to prevent it .  we just do not need another cheeseburger bill .  what we need is a debate about health care , about prevention , and about our priorities .  two-thirds of all americans are obese .  according to the centers for disease control , health care costs related to obesity are costing us more than $ 117 billion annually and much more in damage to our citizens ' quality of life .  we should not accept this fate for so many of our nation 's children .  dealing with obesity by talking about tort reform does just that , it says that congress is more concerned about the industry than it is about the long-term health of our nation and of our children .  no serious policymaker believes that we can turn this tide with a few half-hearted calls for americans to exercise more .  this is going to take real leadership , real investment .  it will take a relentless campaign to educate our citizens , along with public pressure to recognize the importance of this issue .  it will mean taking a hard look at whether our public schools are up to the test in terms of offering nutritious meals and physical education classes for everyone .  it means asking whether industry advertisers are targeting children and , if so , setting strict marketing guidelines .  in the short-term , the easy path is to dodge this whole debate , to pass this tort reform measure and walk away from the discussion .  the harder path and the more responsible one would be to deal with the crisis that is here today and the even bigger crisis we all know is coming .  i for one am ready for that discussion .  i hope my colleagues are .  mr. speaker , i reserve the balance of my time .  mr. speaker , i yield myself the balance of my time .  mr. speaker , it is clear that today 's legislation is not the answer .  certainly it is not about addressing the larger issue , obesity , and its impact on the american health care system .  this legislation demonstrates the blind eye the majority leadership is turning to the very real challenges americans are facing today .  regardless of what happens with this legislation today , america 's health care system will still be in dire need of responsible leadership .  the american people deserve an honest discussion .  mr. speaker , i thank the gentleman for yielding me time .  i rise in support of s. 397 , the protection of lawful commerce in firearms act .  it will prohibit lawsuits against firearms manufacturers , legal distributors , dealers or importers for damages resulting from the misuse of a firearm by a third party .  the bill is very similar to a house bill that i joined with the gentleman from florida ( mr. stearns )  in sponsoring earlier this year .  our house bill achieves the same objectives as the senate bill now before us , and the house bill has been cosponsored by 257 members of this body .  the lawsuits against the firearms industry are nothing more than thinly veiled attempts to circumvent the legislative process and achieve gun control through litigation .  frustrated that congress and most state legislatures have rejected repeated attempts to have gun control imposed , some have now turned to the courts in their effort to limit the legal availability of firearms .  i want for my constituents and for all americans to be able to purchase guns for lawful purposes .  the vast majority of gun owners use their firearms responsibly .  they should not be restricted in their future purchases because the threat of lawsuits has rendered the american market economically unattractive for the manufacturers .  while the bill before us will prohibit lawsuits against manufacturers and others in the chain of distribution based upon misuse of the firearm , it does not interfere with traditional remedies for damages resulting from defects or design in the manufacture of products .  the bill provides no shelter to those who would sell firearms illegally .  it does not affect suits against anyone who has violated other state or federal laws .  this bill is a commonsense measure to eliminate lawsuits which unjustly interrupt the legal sale of a legal product .  a majority of states , including my home state of virginia , enacted similar laws prohibiting these suits .  with our votes today , we will provide a much-needed additional response .  i urge approval of the measure .  mr. speaker , i rise in strong opposition to s. 397 , the gun manufacturers liability protection act .  shielding gun manufacturers , dealers and distributors from liability is one of the most egregious forms of corporate welfare we 've considered in this house all year .  this is george orwell legislation at its finest -- all industries are equal , but some are more equal than others .  if you sell beer to a 17-year-old and he causes an accident , you can be held liable .  but if you allow a 17-year-old to walk out of your store with a high powered rifle , do n't worry .  congress has your back .  mr. speaker , this is not a hypothetical case .  last year the families of dc sniper victims settled for $ 2.5 million with bull 's eye shooter supply and bushmaster firearms , because bull 's eye allowed lee boyd malvo to shoplift a military quality rifle -- one of 233 guns they could not account for when investigated by the atf .  some of my colleagues call this a frivolous lawsuit .  i do n't think there is anything frivolous about 233 missing guns .  in july of this year we gift wrapped a provision in the medical malpractice bill that shielded the pharmaceutical industry from liability on any drug that made it through the regular fda approval process .  coincidentally , merck pharmaceuticals was at the same time facing multiple lawsuits tied to its misrepresentation of the dangers of the prescription drug vioxx .  thanks to this congress , americans can continue to exercise their constitutional right to seek redress in the court system , unless it involves guns or drugs .  i am gratified to see that this bill does include certain common-sense provisions such as child safety locks and a ban on armor-piercing bullets .  we fought hard for these ideas in the clinton administration and i urge my colleagues to resist any pressure to have them removed .  despite my support for these ideas i must vote no on the overall bill .  mr. speaker , this bill denies americans one of their most basic rights in order to provide special protections for a very special interest .  i urge my colleagues to resist the gun lobby and defeat this bill .  mr. speaker , i rise in support of the protection of lawful commerce in arms act .  i am an original cosponsor of the house version of this legislation , h.r. 800 .  a lawsuit against a gun manufacturer simply for being a gun manufacturer has no business in american courts .  i am proud that every court in our judicial system has agreed with that and has thrown out these frivolous lawsuits .  however , in u.s. courts we have the american rule , where each side pays their own legal fees under normal circumstances , instead of the english rule , where the loser usually pays .  generally , i support the american rule because it is fairer to individuals seeking relief from large firms .  unfortunately the american rule can mean that frivolous lawsuits which have no chance of going anywhere still impose a terrible burden on parties .  some people in this country are politically opposed to the firearm industry and believe most firearms should be illegal or hard to obtain .  so these folks do not have a problem spending non-profit money and public money on a losing lawsuit in pursuit of ideology .  however , that is not fair to the firearm industry , which is not only completely legal , but has the right to own their product enshrined in the u.s. constitution .  therefore , it is particularly bad that the firearm industry has had to pay $ 200 million to defend themselves from frivolous lawsuits that have never , ever succeeded in court .  s. 397 only protects legitimate businesses that comply with federal , state and local firearm laws .  the bill does not waive liability for actually defective products , breach of contract or warranty , or other causes that are not related to third-party criminal misuse of firearms .  if we are going to sue firearm makers for armed robberies , why not go on and sue the auto maker who made the get-away car ?  the idea is absurd , but some groups and politicians want to punish firearm manufacturers for their very existence .  as a result , we must pass s. 397 and send it to the president .  mr. speaker , i rise today to express my concern over s. 397 , the protection of lawful commerce in arms act .  the safe and lawful use of firearms is very important to me .  when i was in the california state assembly , i chaired the public safety committee where i worked to pass sensible gun safety legislation and i have voted to ban assault weapons .  i firmly believe we must pass sensible gun laws for the safety of all .  the measure on the house floor today is intended to protect a manufacturer or seller of a firearm , from any legal liability stemming from the criminal or unlawful misuse of that firearm .  the legislation also requires the immediate dismissal of pending lawsuits , even cases in which a court has found the suit to be meritorious .  i fear this bill will deny justice to innocent victims of gun violence , and therefore i will oppose it .  in recent years , dozens of individuals and municipalities have filed lawsuits against gun manufacturers for damages caused by gun violence .  such suits typically contend that gun makers knowingly provide weapons to irresponsible gun dealers , who then take advantage of gun sale loopholes to sell weapons to criminals .  some of these lawsuits by victims of gun violence have begun to expose how the gun industry 's reckless , though not always technically criminal , sales tactics supply criminals with weapons .  the gun lobby argues that s. 397 prohibits `` frivolous '' lawsuits , while allowing `` legitimate '' cases to proceed through the legal system .  however , many legal experts confirm that this bill would give the gun industry sweeping immunity that no other industry has , and would bar many meritorious cases brought by victims of gun violence injured or killed by negligent gun sellers and manufacturers .  the bill would even restrict many cases in which a product defect is at issue .  s. 397 seeks to provide sweeping legal immunity to an industry that already enjoys exemptions from federal health and safety regulations .  it would dramatically re-write liability law for the direct benefit of a single industry .  furthermore , lawsuits brought on behalf of officers injured or killed in the line of duty by guns negligently sold by dealers , would be barred .  if immunity for the gun industry is enacted , police officers who put their lives on the line every day to protect the public would have no legal recourse when they are harmed due to another 's negligence .  mr. speaker , we should not be providing this blanket immunity to the gun industry and i therefore oppose this measure .  mr. speaker , i rise in opposition to s. 397 , the protection of lawful commerce in arms act .  my opposition to the measure is based on my belief that it is overly expansive and overarching .  this bill prohibits civil liability lawsuits against gun manufacturers from being brought in federal or state court .  my congressional district is beset by gun violence .  i believe that gun owners , manufacturers and dealers must assume responsibility for the wanton gun violence that is being perpetrated as result of the willful neglect of gun dealers who cast blind eyes to illegal and irresponsible gun sales to minors , felons and potential terrorists .  it appears to me that we are unwisely and gratuitously insulating gun manufacturers from bona fide civil lawsuits .  this bill protects gun manufacturers but does absolutely nothing to protect innocent victims of gun violence .  i am also concerned that we have prohibited suits from being brought in both federal and state courts and that police officers shot in the line of duty are barred from filing lawsuits .  for the families of fallen offices , their only recourse to obtain compensation for the loss of their loved one is through the civil lawsuit process .  i contend that it is vital to preserve the right of citizens to seek redress through civil lawsuits for any harm they experience by virtue of the neglect and irresponsibility of gun manufacturers and dealers .  i urge my colleagues to vote , `` no '' on s. 397 , and to support the rights of potential victims of gun violence .  mr. speaker , i thank my colleague from maryland for doing such a wonderful job on handling this issue .  let me first say something .  the legislation in front of us , as far as i am concerned , is frivolous .  when we think about the millions and millions of lawsuits that have been filed over the last 10 years , only 57 have actually involved the gun industry , 57 , and for that we are taking time up here in congress .  we hear constantly that this is a good bipartisan bill , that over 200 of our members , republicans and democrats , basically support this legislation .  may i remind many of my colleagues that the nra has put extraordinary pressure on members , and certainly even in the states .  with that being said , there are people out there that need to protect our victims , and they should be protecting our victims .  my family went through a terrible tragedy years ago , and it was because of gun violence .  now , they are saying that the gun industry has nothing to do with the person that buys the gun .  well , i say they do have a purpose .  we know that the gun industry , when they ship the guns to gun dealers , and then a gun is used in the commission of a crime , through the tracing it goes back to the gun dealer to say that this store bought the gun from here .  they keep statistics on this .  in new york state , over 60 percent of the guns used in crime are traced back to the manufacturers .  with that being said , the majority of our gun stores are legitimate owners .  but again , 1 percent is causing over 60 percent of the harm in this nation .  with this bill that is going to be passed today , and it will be passed today and will be signed by the president , is not doing any favor for the citizens of the united states .  our courts are working , and they should continue to work .  but again , it comes down to where the victims should be allowed to have their day in court .  what we are doing to the gun industry is allowing them to have a blanket , a blanket .  my colleagues say that we can have our day in court .  the hoops that they will have to go through will make it near impossible .  the states that have the right , through their attorneys general , to sue the gun manufacturers should have their day in court .  we are not looking to put anyone out of business .  we are not looking to take the right of someone to own a gun , but the gun industry and these bad dealers are costing this country over $ 100 billion in health care every single year , and here we are going to give them blanket immunity .  i do not understand this .  this is not common sense .  this is not protecting the american people .  and when the american people and my gun owners hear exactly what should be done , they agree with us .  it is up to the american people to have their voices heard .  i urge my colleagues to defeat this legislation .  it is not good for the american people , it is not good for the health care system .  madam speaker , i thank the gentleman from florida for yielding me this time .  madam speaker , i oppose this closed rule and the underlying bill .  this bill demonstrates how much of a stranglehold that the nra and gun industry lobbyists have over the majority party .  this bill is not being considered today because it is good policy ; it is being considered because the majority leadership is bowing down to special interests .  while the proponents of this bill claim that the intent of this legislation is to protect jobs at mom-and-pop gun stores from reckless lawsuits , the truth is that the bill is all about protecting profits for the gun industry .  ensuring its yearly profits , not protecting jobs nor safeguarding gun sales , is atop the priorities of the gun industry .  this bill protects any gun manufacturer , distributor , or seller from any claim of negligence .  any lawsuit , current or future , would not be considered by the courts if this bill were signed into law .  madam speaker , on christmas eve in 1999 , in my hometown of worcester , massachusetts , 26-year-old danny guzman was shot and killed .  a week later , police recovered the 9 millimeter kahr arms handgun used to kill young danny .  through ballistics , the police determined that the gun was one of several stolen from kahr arms by kahr employees with criminal records .  according to the police , one of the employees had been hired by kahr to work in its worcester manufacturing facility , despite the fact that he had a long history of drug addiction , theft to support that addiction , alcohol abuse and violence , including several assault and battery charges .  police determined that the guns were stolen from kahr before the weapons had serial numbers stamped on them and were then resold to criminals in exchange for money and drugs .  in march 2000 , police arrested a man who pled guilty to the gun thefts .  the investigation also led to the arrest of a kahr employee , a man with a criminal history who pled guilty to stealing from kahr a pistol and a slide for another weapon .  now , kahr did not conduct any criminal or general background checks on its employees .  the company did not even have any metal detectors or x-ray machines or security cameras or other similar devices to monitor the facility or to determine if employees were stealing , nor were there guards to check employees at the end of their shifts .  mr. speaker , anybody with half a brain has to understand that this company was negligent .  now , if this bill becomes law , gun manufacturers like kahr arms would be shielded from negligence .  and the guzman family 's suit would be dismissed .  this is just one of the many stories that illustrate the reckless and irresponsible nature of many , not all , but many in the gun industry .  and this bill will only further shield them from accountability .  now , do not be fooled .  the nra and the gun industry want this bill not because jobs are threatened .  they want this bill because they fear their precious profits will be affected should they be forced to change some of their irresponsible and reckless practices .  to my colleagues who support this bill , tell the guzman family that they have no right to be angry at the worcester-based manufacturer .  tell them that the death of their beloved danny guzman was just bad luck and could not have been prevented .  the fact of the matter is , it could have been prevented by more responsible practices by kahr arms .  i have to believe that gun owners all across this country would not object to ensuring that gun manufacturers allow for more responsible practices in terms of protecting what they manufacture .  this is not about taking people 's guns away .  this is about protecting people .  mr. speaker , i would urge my colleagues to vote `` no '' on the rule and the underlying legislation .  mr. speaker , the exception that he just cited would not cover the example that i just gave .  the bottom line is that it was an employee who worked for kahr arms that stole these weapons and that sold them to criminals for drug money .  as a result , a young man was killed .  and it is our understanding , based on my conversations with members of the judiciary committee , that in fact this would not be covered .  so having said that , i would urge my colleagues to vote `` no '' on this bill .  mr. speaker , the gun industry would like to see this legislation passed today so that they can protect their profits .  but i would like to talk about the real people who will be affected by this bill , people who have suffered enough .  i would like to talk about a 26-year-old father of two from my home state of massachusetts whose death was a direct result of negligence by a gun maker .  five years ago , danny guzman was leaving a holiday party to go home to see his daughters , tammy and selena , but he never made it home .  standing on the street , danny guzman was struck down by a stray bullet fired from a 9 millimeter handgun .  that gun that killed him made its way into criminal hands because a gun factory employee had stolen it from his workplace and sold it on the black market .  but this is no isolated incident .  in that same year , over 25 , 000 guns hit america 's streets after being stolen or lost under suspicious circumstances .  and , according to court testimony in the case , stealing guns happened at the plant `` all the time , '' and it happened all the time because no system was in place to prevent theft .  it happened all the time because the gun company was negligent .  and , in this particular case , the employee got his job at the gun plant despite a criminal record that included a history of drug abuse , theft , and violence .  mr. speaker , when big tobacco lied about the dangers of smoking , we held them accountable .  when the pharmaceutical industry markets dangerous drugs , we hold them accountable , too .  but what do we do when gun makers and dealers ruin countless lives through their reckless behavior , through their negligence ?  this house considers legislation to provide them special protection and to deny gun victims and their families the justice they deserve .  if this bill becomes law , the guzman family in massachusetts , in addition to losing a husband , a son , and a father , will lose their right of legal recourse and justice .  it would be an unspeakably cruel case of justice denied .  i strongly oppose this legislation and i urge my colleagues to do the same .  businesses in the firearms industry do not deserve special treatment under the law .  mr. speaker , i rise today in strong opposition to the `` protection of lawful commerce in arms act. '' this bill is an attempt to carve out an exclusive liability exemption , and its vote on the floor today is a giveback to the gun industry at a significant cost to the american people .  under this bill , manufacturers and sellers of firearms or ammunition will not be held accountable for even the most irresponsible distribution of weapons that kill innocent people , including police officers , children and bystanders of gang violence .  while the wholesale prohibition against lawsuits may allow several exemptions , these exclusions overhaul years of legal negligence standards .  i 'm concerned that this bill for the gun industry sets an impractical legal standard for even the most reasonable litigation .  in the washington-area , we are particularly sensitive to gun violence .  you may not all remember , but our nation was held captive for three weeks in october 2002 while two men systematically killed ten people and wounded three others with a sniper rifle obtained from an irresponsible gun dealer that `` lost '' over 200 other unaccounted for guns .  the language in this bill is so restrictive that survivors of the victims would not have had any legal recourse against the company whose negligent business practices led to the deaths of their family .  under the bill , we are eliminating a powerful incentive for gun dealers to value accountability and keep guns out of the wrong hands .  we are implicitly condoning their irresponsible behavior .  i understand the desire to protect the american judicial system from what some people perceive as frivolous lawsuits .  but gun manufacturers and sellers should not be able to write their own liability standard into law .  we are n't debating a product that has an inconsequential impact on our nation .  almost 30 , 000 people in our country die from firearm injuries , murders , and suicides each year .  according to the national center for injury prevention and control , as recently as 2002 , 2 , 893 young people were murdered by firearms .  that accounts for the second leading cause of death for young people under 19 in the united states .  our economy even suffers from this senseless violence .  from the loss of productivity , medical treatment and rehabilitation and legal costs , gun violence costs the u.s. at least $ 100 billion annually .  instead of putting forth a national plan to end this futile cycle of death , extending the ban on assault weapons , or even prohibiting people we know are on our own terrorist list from obtaining weapons , we are debating how to best shield the gun industry from accountability and responsibility .  mr. speaker , it is unfortunate today that we are sending the wrong message to gun manufacturers and the worst of all possible messages to the public : we are not willing to put special interests aside to protect the american people .  mr. speaker , i rise in opposition to the so-called protection of lawful commerce in arms act because i do n't believe that giving gun makers , gun dealers , and gun trade associations special exemption from lawsuits makes our streets any safer .  if this law had been in place , the families of victims of the dc-area sniper could never have held negligent suppliers accountable .  in september 2004 , eight victims received a settlement from the dealer that `` lost '' the snipers ' assault rifle from its inventory , along with at least 238 other guns .  the victims ' families also received a settlement from the manufacturer who negligently supplied the dealer despite its record of missing guns and regulatory violations .  most importantly , as part of the settlement , the manufacturer agreed to instruct its dealers of safer sales practices that should prevent other criminals from obtaining guns .  since the national rifle association owns about two-thirds of the congress , guns have fewer safety regulations than teddy bears .  the american people ca n't look to congress to protect them , so they have no choice but to turn to the courts .  it 's no surprise that this last resort will now be shut down out of deference to the almighty gun industry .  as if this blatant pandering to an industry responsible for widespread violence and mayhem is n't bad enough , this bill also violates the fundamental right of every american to have their day in court .  as soon as the president signs this bill into law , americans will be able to sue the manufacturer of any product except for guns for death , injury , and any other kind of negligence .  congress , at the behest of the nra , will close the courthouse doors to gun victims .  i vote `` no '' on this bill because no industry , certainly not the gun industry , should have the right to conduct their business without the oversight of the judicial system .  mr. speaker , i yield myself such time as i may consume .  mr. speaker , i rise in strong opposition to this dangerous and misguided bill that would exempt gun dealers from liability even when they negligently sell weapons to criminals .  it is particularly distressing that we are taking up this bill at this particular time .  it was just 3 years ago this month , in october , when the community that i represent right outside here of washington , dc was terrorized by two snipers , who left 10 people dead and three people injured .  the snipers obtained their weapons from a negligent gun dealer in washington state .  mr. speaker , i have been struck by how some people in this institution and other places believe that the name given to a bill will somehow fool the american people as to what the bill actually does .  this bill has the title on it protection of lawful commerce in arms act .  in fact , what the bill does is to make lawful many negligent actions that today are unlawful .  what it actually does is protect those gun dealers who are engaged in wrongful , negligent sales of weapons to criminals .  how does it do it ?  very simple .  it lowers the legal standard of care that gun dealers must today exercise to prevent guns from falling into the hands of criminals .  as a result , the passage of this bill will make it easier , easier , for criminals to get weapons and it will ensure that those gun dealers who negligently , negligently , put guns in the hands of criminals will not be held responsible for their wrongful actions .  and it is a sad day , mr. speaker , in this body when special interests and the gun industry exert such influence that they are able to convince the congress to strip innocent victims of crimes of their rights and instead extend protections to those unscrupulous dealers who put guns into the hands of criminals .  now , proponents of this legislation will tell us that most gun dealers in our nation are honest and law abiding .  i agree .  that is true .  in fact , the bureau of alcohol , firearms , and tobacco has found that about 1 percent , about 1 percent , of gun dealers are responsible for nearly 60 percent of the guns that are traced to crimes .  so if most gun dealers are honorable and responsible citizens , why do they need protection ?  they do not .  the real beneficiaries of this legislation are those small handful of dealers who are negligently putting guns in the hands of criminals .  it is protecting the bad apples .  it is giving them a green light to go ahead and say i see nothing when they are engaged in sales to wrongdoers .  the proponents of this bill , as we have heard , will tell us it is only intended to stop so-called `` frivolous lawsuits. '' that notion has been soundly rejected by victim advocates across this country , and it is an insult to the victims who seek redress against those dealers who profit from negligently selling to violent predators .  let us focus for a minute on the victims of gun crimes in our country .  should we not be protecting them ?  why do we not have a bill entitled the `` protection of gun violence victims '' on the floor today ?  let us look at some cases .  we have talked about the sniper case .  i differ strongly with the chairman of the committee , and the bill , as the testimony has made clear , would not have allowed that suit to go forward .  i represent that area where so many people lost their lives 3 years ago this month .  on many sunny days when the snipers gunned down people who were going about their ordinary business , filling up their gas at gas stations , shopping at grocery stores , cutting their grass , a child who was going to school .  before those snipers were caught , they killed 10 people and wounded three .  the snipers have been caught , convicted , and they are behind bars .  the snipers carried out those attacks with a bushmaster xm-15 semiautomatic .223 caliber rifle .  the rifle came from bull 's eye shooter supply in tacoma , washington , which had an extensive history of firearms violations and had not reported the rifle as missing as required by federal law because they said they did not know the rifle was missing .  according to the atf , this store and its owner had a long history of firearms sales and records violations .  on january 16 , 2003 , the families of many of the victims of the sniper attacks who were killed brought a lawsuit against that gun store for their losses and injuries .  the victims of that heinous crime spree received a $ 2.5 million settlement .  let us be clear .  if this law had been in effect at that time , those victims and their families would have received nothing .  in fact , this bill was being debated on the floor of this house 3 years ago this month when those killings were going on , and this house realized how bad it would look to victimize those people twice , to have them victimized once by the snipers and again by the united states congress by denying their day in court , and that is why this house decided to withdraw the bill at that time from consideration from the floor of the house .  here we are 3 years later coming back and passing legislation that would have denied them their right .  shame on us .  let us talk about another case .  in new jersey , june , 2004 , two former new jersey police officers , ken mcguire and dave lemongello , were shot in the line of duty with a trafficked gun that had been negligently sold by a west virginia dealer .  those two officers received a $ 1 million settlement for the negligence of this dealer .  the dealer had sold the gun along with 11 other handguns in a cash sale to a straw buyer , a trafficker , someone who got the guns because he could legally obtain them but then turned around and sold them to a criminal who committed the crimes .  if this bill had been in effect then , that case would have been dismissed and justice for those police officers would have been denied .  and because of that , many law enforcement officers and organizations have written a letter opposing this bill , a copy , mr. speaker , which i will insert in the record .  should we not be trying to create additional incentives to improve the business practices of these gun dealers , not give them a green light to be negligent ?  what happened to protecting the victims ?  this bill does just the opposite .  it provides a shield to an industry that should be providing a standard of care at least equal to other industries and businesses .  why do we want to make the gun industry the most protected industry in america ?  it is inconceivable that we are here today at the behest of the gun industry to provide immunity that no other industry enjoys and at the expense of the victims of gun violence .  this bill will shut the courthouse doors on many victims who have legitimate claims .  in the interest of truth in advertising , the real name of this bill should be the `` protection of negligent gun dealers act. '' i urge my colleagues to oppose this .  october 19 , 2005 .  dear senator : as active and retired law enforcement officers , we are writing to urge your strong opposition to any legislation granting the gun industry special legal immunity .  s. 397 would strip away the legal rights of gun violence victims , including law enforcement officers and their families , to seek redress against irresponsible gun dealers and manufacturers .  the impact of this bill on the law enforcement community is well illustrated by the lawsuit brought by former orange , new jersey police officers ken mcguire and david lemongello .  on january 12 , 2001 , mcguire and lemongello were shot in the line of duty with a trafficked gun negligently sold by a west virginia dealer .  the dealer had sold the gun , along with 11 other handguns , in a cash sale to a straw buyer for a gun trafficker .  in june 2004 , the officers obtained a $ 1 million settlement from the dealer .  the dealer , as well as two other area pawnshops , also have implemented safer practices to prevent sales to traffickers , including a new policy of ending large-volume sales of handguns .  these reforms go beyond the requirements of current law and are not imposed by any manufacturers or distributors .  if immunity for the gun industry had been enacted , the officers ' case would have been thrown out of court and justice would have been denied .  police officers like ken mcguire and dave lemongello put their lives on the line every day to protect the public .  instead of honoring them for their service , legislation granting immunity to the gun industry would deprive them of their basic rights as american citizens to prove their case in a court of law .  we stand with officers mcguire and lemongello in urging you to oppose such legislation .  sincerely , international brotherhood of police officers ( afl-cio police union ) .  major cities chiefs association ( represents our nation 's largest police departments ) .  national black police association ( nationwide organization with more than 35 , 000 members ) .  hispanic american police command officers association ( serving command level staff and federal agents ) .  national latino peace officers association .  the police foundation ( a private , nonprofit research institution ) .  michigan association of chiefs of police .  rhode island state association of chiefs of police .  maine chiefs of police association .  departments listed for identification purposes only : sergeant moises agosto , pompton lakes police dept .  ( nj ) ; sheriff drew alexander , summit county sheriff 's office ( oh ) ; sheriff thomas l. altiere , trumbull county sheriff 's office ( oh ) ; director anthony f. ambrose iii , newark police dept .  ( nj ) ; chief jon j. arcaro , conneaut police dept .  ( oh ) ; officer robert c. arnold , rutherford police dept .  ( nj ) ; chief ron atstupenas , blackstone police dept .  ( ma ) ; sheriff kevin a. beck , williams county sheriff 's office ( oh ) ; detective sean burke , lawrence police dept .  ( ma ) ; chief william bratton , los angeles police dept .  ( ca ) ; special agent ( ret ) ronald j. brogan , drug enforcement agency ; and chief thomas v. brownell , amsterdam police dept .  ( ny ) .  chief ( ret ) john h. cease , wilmington police dept .  ( nc ) ; chief michael chitwood , portland police dept .  ( me ) ; chief william citty , oklahoma police dept .  ( ok ) ; chief kenneth v. collins , maplewood police dept .  ( mn ) ; chief daniel g. davidson , new franklin police dept .  ( oh ) ; asst .  director jim deal , us dept .  homeland security , reno/lake tahoe airport ( nv ) ; chief gregory a. duber , bedford police dept .  ( oh ) ; captain george egbert , rutherford police dept .  ( nj ) ; sterling epps , president , association of former customs agents , northwest chapter ( wa ) ; chief dean esserman , providence police dept .  ( ri ) ; and captain mark folsom , kansas city police dept .  ( mo ) .  chief charles j. glorioso , trinidad police dept .  ( co ) ; superintendent jerry g. gregory ( ret ) , radnor township police dept .  ( pa ) ; chief jack f. harris , phoenix police dept .  ( az ) ; chief ( ret. ) thomas k. hayselden , shawnee police dept .  ( ks ) ; terry g. hillard , retired superintendent , chicago police dept .  ( il ) ; steven higgins , director ( ret. ) atf ; chief ken james , emeryville police dept .  ( ca ) ; chief calvin johnson , dumfries police dept .  ( va ) ; chief gil kerlikowske , seattle police dept .  ( wa ) ; deputy chief jeffrey a. kumorek , gary police dept .  ( in ) ; detective john kotnour , overland park police dept .  ( ks ) ; detective curt lavarello , sarasota county sheriffs office ( fl ) ; chief michael t. lazor , willowick police dept .  ( oh ) ; sheriff simon l. leis , jr. , hamilton county sheriffs dept .  ( oh ) ; and sheriff ralph lopez , bexar county sheriff ( tx ) .  chief cory lyman , ketchum police dept .  ( id ) ; chief david a. maine , euclid police dept .  ( oh ) ; chief j. thomas manger , montgomery county police dept .  ( md ) ; chief burnham e. matthews , alameda police dept .  ( ca ) ; chief michael t. matulavich , akron police dept .  ( oh ) ; chief randall c. mccoy , ravenna police dept .  ( oh ) ; sergeant michael mcguire , essex county sheriff 's dept .  ( nj ) ; chief william p. mcmanus , minneapolis police dept .  ( mn ) ; chief roy meisner , berkley police dept .  ( ca ) ; sheriff al myers ; delaware county sheriff 's office ( oh ) ; chief albert najera , sacramento police dept .  ( ca ) ; chief mark s. paresi , north las vegas police dept .  ( nv ) ; sheriff charles c. plummer , alameda county sheriffs department ( ca ) ; chief edward reines , yavapat-prescott tribal police dept .  ( az ) ; chief cel rivera , lorain police dept .  ( oh ) .  officer kevin j. scanell , rutherford police dept .  ( nj ) ; robert m. schwartz , executive director , maine police dept .  ( me ) ; chief ronald c. sloan , arvada police dept .  ( co ) ; chief william taylor , rice university police dept .  ( tx ) ; asst .  chief lee roy villareal , bexar county sheriffs dept .  ( tx ) ; chief ( ret ) joseph j. vince , jr. , crime gun analysis branch , atf ( va ) ; chief garnett f. watson , jr. , gary police dept .  ( in ) ; and hubert williams , president , the police foundation ( dc ) .  mr. speaker , i reserve the balance of my time .  mr. speaker , i wish my colleague from virginia would come meet with 10 families from the washington area who had victims killed during the sniper attacks 3 years ago , as well as the police officers from new jersey , and tell them that those lawsuits were frivolous lawsuits .  mr. speaker , it seems that the charts that my colleague showed listing all the lawsuits actually make the case for how the system is working because , as he knows , many of those cases have been dismissed by the court .  the court looked at them ; and those cases that were frivolous , it decided to dismiss .  so why are we trying to change the rules ?  it is because there are some cases that have merit , like the sniper cases and others , that would continue to go through , and under this legislation , they will not .  why change the rules to deny legitimate victims their day in court ?  mr. speaker , i rise to lament the wrecking of a solid , bipartisan bill that , at one time , both established a tough new regulator for our nation 's secondary mortgage market and created a new national housing trust to build affordable housing .  our nation 's economic security and the housing opportunity of millions of americans is being played with on the floor today .  but more than this particular bill , i also lament the fact that this congress is held hostage to the extreme right wing agenda of the majority .  a small cabal of 50 or so members who , though small in number , loud in voice , threaten this republican majority and hold this congress and our country hostage .  they claim they want smaller government but they are saddling our children with trillions in the notorious birth tax -- yes , every child born in america today comes into this world with a $ 30 , 000 debt to the government thanks to the skewed economic policies of the so-called fiscally conservative republican party .  they claim to help people but want to strip away student loans from college kids , medicaid from the poor , and aid to farmers , for bigger tax cuts for the richest americans .  they claim they support families , but they are robbing the basic tenet of the american dream -- home ownership -- right here in this very bill .  they claim to represent people of faith , but they are stripping away the ability of groups like catholic charities , baptists and other people of faith to use this new funding to benefit their communities and make america stronger .  if this rule passes the republicans will have done what they do best , stripping away the american dream of owning a home for millions of americans .  as well as continuing on their path to destroying what this country stands for , religious freedom , home ownership and the ability of child to live a better life than his or her parents .  this debate is bigger than this rule , bigger than this bill .  it goes to the heart of who the republican party is today , and it is a party that does not stand for working people .  this rule demonstrates this fact .  vote down this anti-religion , anti-american rule .  mr. speaker , the gentleman from texas keeps on saying this is about policy , not politics ; but what would be more political than the language in here that denies poor people the right to vote ?  mr. speaker , i yield myself the balance of my time .  mr. speaker , over the past 5 years , we have seen 100 , 000 federal housing units lost .  we are down 50 percent in real terms in elderly and disabled housing at a time when the leadership on the other side of the aisle has tried to eliminate the community development block grant program .  they have significantly cut back on the number of section 8 vouchers for low-income housing assistance , and they have tried to limit housing assistance overall , so it is important that this underlying bill pass and at the same time that this reprehensible provision , this attack on poor people , be struck from the bill .  mr. speaker , to prohibit organizations from receiving funding for housing , many of these organizations , faith-based organizations , that participate in nonpartisan activities , as the new york times said today , has no place in our democracy .  we can do so much better .  the fact of the matter is that many of these faith-based organizations that do an incredible job in housing will be barred from participating because of this provision .  vote down the rule .  let us fix this provision .  mr. speaker , on that i demand the yeas and nays .  mr. chairman , i thank the gentleman from massachusetts for the time .  i think we have put together a good bill .  it was a bipartisan bill .  it addressed a lot of the concerns that a lot of us had about affordable housing for minorities , low-income individuals who have an opportunity to obtain a home , but with the poison pill that has been put in in its final package , it makes the bill very difficult to support .  all of us believe that affordable homes should be available for individuals .  this does strengthen regulatory oversight on freddie mac , fannie mae and the federal home loan banks .  i think that is positive , and it presents an opportunity for many individuals , especially in my area , san bernardino county , the inland empire , where we have a lot of growth in the area .  we have people that are moving from orange county , l.a. , san diego .  they are looking at buying affordable homes .  this bill would give many individuals , low income , an opportunity to do that , especially when the average cost of a home in l.a .  is $ 475 , 000 , and in san bernardino it is $ 352 , 000 .  many individuals can not afford to buy a home .  now that they have that first opportunity , i know what it is like because i came from a family of 15 , and i know for the very first time when we were able to buy a home .  had we not bought a home , i would not have had stability in my roots in the immediate area .  that is why provisions of this bill are great .  what i do not like about the bill is a poison pill that has been put on there , which i believe it is unconstitutional and restrictions aimed at suppressing the civil rights engaged in by poor minorities for voting .  we believe that every person should have the right to vote and to participate , and we say that that does not preclude them , and you have to put a priority whether it is for affordable housing or whether you will be involved in engaging , encouraging individuals .  america has always encouraged individuals to participate in our american democracy , and that is the democracy of voting .  we have our veterans who have fought for this country and are now fighting in iraq , are fighting for the freedoms that we enjoy today .  one of those freedoms is the right to get out and vote , to allow every individual to participate and vote , not to restrict individuals , but to allow them to vote .  this would restrict these individuals who are getting funded for the housing to say you are not going to participate in this american democracy by registering individuals to vote .  we should allow them .  it is part of democracy .  this is anti-civil rights , especially when we just have rosa parks who just died and fought hard for civil rights .  we have alice paul who fought for the suffrage of women and others to encourage to make sure that women had the right to vote .  now what we are saying is , minorities , you are voting in higher numbers ; we are not going to include you in part of that process because if you do , and if you get involved in part of that process , we are going to cut out your funding .  i believe this is not fair .  that is why the national council of la raza , naacp , naleo , lulac , puerto rican association , faith-based initiatives are all opposing the restriction of this anti-poison pill that has been put into this bill .  i hope we can make a correction in the senate and do justice for every individual .  we talk about leave no child behind .  now we are saying leave every individual who wants to participate from low-income minority families behind because we do not want them to participate in our american democracy .  this is about america .  we are proud americans , and we should allow every american to participate .  we should not deny one organization from going to them and asking them to participate in that process .  what we are doing is saying , you will not be involved in that process , you will not be involved in that process .  no , that is unfair .  it is un-american .  as an american and a member who served in the armed forces , which we fought for many individuals , we have that responsibility , mr. chairman .  we have the responsibility to make sure that every american has that right .  let us not go backwards .  let us go forward .  together we can make a difference .  mr. chairman , i rise in support of h.r. 1461 to strengthen the regulatory oversight of fannie mae , freddie mac , and the federal home loan banks .  i comment my colleagues on the financial services committee for their bipartisan approach and hard work in drafting this important bill .  this bill keeps the government sponsored enterprises ( gses ) safe , sound and focused on their mission while preserving their mission to support financing for low- and moderate- income housing .  also , this bill includes provisions that will increase housing opportunities for low income families by : establishing a specific requirement for gses to serve underserved areas , enhancing the gses affordable housing goals and increasing loan limits for high cost areas .  this bill includes an affordable housing fund that will increase affordable housing for low income communities .  this fund is particularly important to me because of its potential to increase affordable housing for many hard-working families in my district .  housing costs in southern california have skyrocketed .  many families have moved to the san bernardino area where housing is considered less expensive .  but even here , we have seen home prices rise quickly , and i am concerned that many working couples can not afford a home .  last week , the los angeles times reported that the median price paid for a southern california home was $ 475 , 000 in september , up 16.1 percent from a year earlier .  in san bernardino county , the median price has risen 32.8 percent in the past year to $ 352 , 000 .  this issue has great meaning to me personally .  i grew up in a family with 15 children without a lot of money .  i have been fortunate enough to have worked hard and been able to achieve the american dream of owning a home .  but i know that this dream remains unattainable for millions of families .  hispanic families especially face difficulties buying a home as their incomes on average are lower , and they might not have the same access to or understanding of financial institutions .  i hope the affordable housing fund will increase rental and homeownership opportunities for these and other working class families .  as a catholic , i have learned of our obligation to serve the poor .  i am proud of the work that catholic charities and other faith-based groups engage in .  their mission to help those in need includes providing shelter and also helping citizens fully participate in america 's political process .  while i support the bill for its merits , i am strongly opposed to the restrictions added after it passed the committee that place severe restrictions on nonprofit entities and faith based groups applying for affordable housing grants .  the language inserted would undermine and severely limit the fund by excluding nonprofits involved in non-partisan voter registration efforts .  republicans are trying to prevent church groups and other respected non-profit organizations from providing important services .  they are engaged in yet another backdoor scheme to sneak in unconstitutional restrictions aimed at suppressing the civic engagement of working class and minority families .  these non-partisan community groups often serve as the main point of contact and , in many cases , are the only local groups addressing the social , civic , and educational needs of the people they serve .  yet conservative republicans want to force these trusted organizations to choose between providing civic education and affordable housing .  why ?  why do republicans want to deny low income and minority voters participation in the political process ?  what do they fear ?  do they fear democracy ?  during the presidential campaign , republican leaders made aggressive efforts to woo black and hispanic voters who have historically supported democrats .  now republicans are determined to deny affordable housing to these same minority groups .  is this payback ?  i hope that we would all agree our country is stronger if more americans register to vote and show up at the polls , whichever party or candidate they support .  we need to encourage participation in our great democracy not limit it .  i want to mention an american hero , alice paul , who made our country better , fairer , more democratic by leading the struggle for women 's rights -- including the right to vote .  by the way , she was a republican , but she was committed to promoting political participation .  so we should encourage community organizations to help register voters and praise them for doing so , not penalize them or prevent them .  the restrictions added by republicans serve no other purpose than to reduce access to voting by low income people , and i urge my colleagues to vote against the restrictions .  if however , they pass , i am committed to working with my colleagues to strip away these horrible provisions as the bill goes through the conference committee process .  mr. chairman , i thank the chairman for his compliments .  mr. chairman , on rollcall no .  541 , i inadvertently voted `` aye. '' i wish the record to show that had i voted correctly , i would have voted `` no . '' mr. chairman , i yield myself as much time as i may consume .  mr. chairman , i agree with a great deal of what the gentleman from ohio ( mr. oxley )  has said , as i agree with a great deal of what is in the bill .  in the nature of parliamentary debate , we will be focusing on some specific points where i disagree , but i do not want that to obscure the fact that there is a great deal of agreement .  mr. chairman , i yield myself 15 seconds to say the gentleman from louisiana has phrased that conundrum for groups exactly correctly .  i agree with the roman catholic church of the united states that they should not have to make that choice , and the episcopal church and the baptist .  that is exactly what the catholic church says : we have been doing housing ; do not make us choose .  mr. chairman , i yield myself such time as i may consume .  first , let me say that i am glad that the gentleman from louisiana ( mr. baker )  indicated the status of the gentleman from delaware ( mr. castle )  , because i would not have wanted him to have been an unindicated co-contributor .  i think that was very helpful .  mr. chairman , i first yield myself 1 minute to say i do not think it is a fair characterization of the low-income housing activities of the catholic church or other organizations that they are trying to back up the truck to the treasury .  in the first place , there is no debate that every penny in the affordable housing fund goes for affordable housing .  the question is , what do you have to give up as a choice of doing the affordable housing .  every faith organization in america , every protestant denomination , every branch of judaism , and the roman catholic church says we do housing , and the gentleman is right .  they could simply refuse to take any money from this and go forward , because they are not eligible for money from this .  why do that ?  why say to the faith-based organization , whatever happened to your belief in the importance of helping faith-based organizations ?  is it over already , that romance ?  because that is what we just want to change .  all we want is to allow our religious organizations in part to be able to participate without stopping their voter registration and other activity .  competitive equity .  well , i would say to the gentleman , we agree on this .  competitive equity has got nothing to do with protecting the taxpayers , except the taxpayers who happen to own banks .  that is where competitive equity comes in .  the fact is that safety and soundness is what protects the taxpayers .  competitive equity has to do with fairness to competitors .  that does not implicate the treasury .  mr. chairman , we have had very limited time here , so i am going to stray to another topic relative to the bill .  mr. speaker , i offer a motion to recommit .  in its present form , i am , mr. speaker .  mr. speaker , the gentleman has done great work , but he said this does not bar religious groups .  from october 3 to the speaker from the catholic bishops : `` limiting eligible recipients to organizations that have as their primary purpose , '' which this bill does now , `` the provision of affordable housing , would effectively prevent catholic dioceses , parishes and catholic charities from participating. '' secondly , none of the money here would go to those other purposes .  i agree with what the gentleman said .  i just do not agree with what the bill said .  this is their chance to reconcile them .  i thank the gentleman .  mr. speaker , i demand a recorded vote .  mr. chairman , it is with some reluctance i rise now in opposition to h.r. 1461 , the federal housing finance reform act .  in its amended form , the legislation no longer puts the best interest of our nation at heart , but instead holds a precious resource hostage for the sake of partisan politics .  the provision restricting non-profit organizations , and their affiliates , from using their own funds to engage in non-partisan voter registration or get-out-the-vote activities if they want to apply for the much-needed affordable housing funds is entirely inappropriate .  election activities promoting good citizenship conducted by unbiased , non-profit organizations should be encouraged , not restricted .  to add insult to injury , the new provision imposes a new burden of requiring these groups to list housing assistance as their `` primary purpose '' if they want to apply for funds .  the effect of this constraint will be to reduce the diversity of assistance that will be available .  with such a growing need for affordable housing , and for competent groups capable of connecting people with the already scarce resources , i can not imagine why my colleagues would want to handicap these organizations from providing assistance to our nation 's most vulnerable populations .  it is for these reasons i can not support this otherwise sound and reasonable measure to improve the regulation of our nation 's largest source of mortgages .  i urge my colleagues to vote `` no '' on h.r. 1461 .  mr. chairman , when this bill left the financial services committee on a 65 to 5 vote , i felt we were on the way to a great accomplishment .  i was truly impressed with the hard work that chairman oxley , ranking member frank , congressman baker , and others had done to bring the gses into this century .  it is no less than tragic that the majority leadership and the administration have deep sixed this bipartisan legislation .  the bill creates the sort of regulator that the gses have long lacked and that they demonstrably need , without destroying their housing mission .  i was particularly excited by the affordable housing fund provided by this bill .  the fund is a critical and long-overdue step toward addressing the very real housing crisis that confronts low-income families .  it would be the first concrete step the congress has taken in support of housing in this administration .  we know that without federal assistance , housing for low-income families does not get built or made available .  yet each year this administration has cut its support for housing .  in this bill , we found a bipartisan way to support housing using a new funding source .  the gses were chartered by the federal government for the purpose of providing housing to more americans , and they enjoy a benefit as a result of their federal charter .  thus , it is uniquely appropriate that they plow a percentage of their profits -- up to 5 percent -- back into the low-income end of the housing market .  this would be $ 500 million or more annually .  that is serious money .  we built on success : the fund is modelled after the successful affordable housing program of the federal home loan bank program .  we wanted all players involved .  funds would be awarded through a competitive process to for profit builders , state housing organizations , and non-profits .  we put in place safeguards to prevent abuse .  the funds must be used for low-income housing .  they may not be used to lobby or to conduct partisan political activities .  recipients who misuse funds will not be allowed to participate again .  this bill is the best thing that has come along for housing in a very long time .  therefore it is particularly tragic that the majority has injected a poison pill into the bipartisan bill that left our committee : the provision that prevents any nonprofit recipient of a housing grant from conducting nonpartisan voter registration or get-out-the-vote activities .  this is an outrageously bad provision that imposes unconstitutional restrictions on promoting the most fundamental of our civil liberties : the right to vote .  it is profoundly disturbing that the majority and the administration are willing to use any tool available to kill this bill and prevent the housing fund from becoming a reality .  i urge my colleagues on both sides of the aisle to repudiate these provisions that strike at faith based organizations and the fundamental right to vote .  i can not in good conscience vote for this bill with this provision in it .  even the promise of housing money comes at too high a price when we must compromise the principles on which this nation is built .  mr. chairman , i rise in opposition to this legislation .  i support increasing oversight of fannie mae and freddie mac .  it is a worthwhile goal , one that the recent scandals at these institutions and on wall street illustrate is sorely needed .  and i support the creation of a budget-neutral affordable housing fund .  indeed , that this kind of program should be created , given the proclivity of this republican house of gutting programs for the poor , is nothing short of miraculous .  however , i can not support a program whose benefits come at the expense of the rights of nonprofit organizations .  the provision in question would disqualify any nonprofit group that engages in voter participation activities , such as voter registration and get-out-the-vote efforts , from applying for a grant under the affordable housing fund .  this would apply even if the activities are non-partisan and even if they are paid for with non-federal monies .  this provision would have a chilling effect on the constitutional speech and association rights of all nonprofits .  how can the republicans , in good faith , claim to work with us on the reauthorization of the voting rights act , and turn around and tie the hands of those groups who are trying to incorporate the disenfranchised into the democratic process ?  what 's worse , this provision is entirely superfluous .  nonprofits are already prohibited from using federal funds to lobby .  however , they are free to engage in lobbying and nonpartisan voter registration with non-federal dollars .  this bill is a slap in the face to those groups who need this money most .  what 's more , this restriction only applies to non-profit organizations , not any for-profit entities seeking grants from the fund .  this bill also essentially bars non-profits whose mission extends beyond the provision of affordable housing .  many organizations develop and manage effective affordable housing programs alongside programs that provide food , closing , counseling , and other health and social services .  those who claim to work on behalf of the faith-based community should take a close look at this bill , and should watch this vote closely .  by voting aye you are barring church groups from affordable housing funds if their primary mission goes beyond affordable housing .  this is a typical piece of republican legislation .  once again , my friends from across the aisle have poisoned legislation that would otherwise have received bipartisan support by picking on those who can least afford to defend themselves .  i encourage my colleagues to join me in opposing this bill , and supporting the motion to recommit .  we can and should do better .  mr. chairman , i would like to thank the gentleman from massachusetts ( mr. frank )  for yielding me the time and for the job he has done to shape this legislation .  i would like to thank the gentleman from ohio ( mr. oxley )  for the tremendous cooperation and the leadership that has been shown that helped to get bipartisan support for this legislation .  when it left our committee , it was a good bill .  it was a bill that even some people who had not wanted to support it went along with , because in the final analysis , it was going to bring about reform of the gses .  now , some of us know that there is a need for reform with the gses .  we are concerned .  we do not want them carrying debt that is not shown , that we do not understand , because we do not want these humongous general services enterprises to somehow get in trouble and we have to bail them out the way we did with the s & amp ; ls .  so despite the fact that we think there was an effort by some on the opposite side of the aisle to basically deal with the some of the arguments of the banks and savings and loans about the gses being too big , getting too retail , basically taking over their markets , we support reform ; and we voted for the bill because we support reform .  because of the vision of the gentleman from massachusetts ( mr. frank )  , we were able to do something for working people and for poor people by creating this very , very special arrangement that could be used for the production and preservation of low-income affordable housing , this kind of set aside .  it would be the after-tax profit from these gses that will be used to produce low-income housing .  and so despite the fact that for years there has been kind of a confrontation between the gses and the banks and s & amp ; ls about market share and all of that , we thought it made good sense to make sure that the gses were not too big , carrying too much debt .  so this reform is good .  but what is absolutely mind-boggling about what has happened , from the time the bill left committee until the time it has reached the floor today , is this politicizing of the fund by some of those on the opposite side of the aisle who never supported this fund for low- and moderate-income housing to begin with .  what did they do ?  after the bill left committee , they decided that they were going to try to put some unconstitutional boundaries on nonprofits , and i guess profit-making organizations alike , that would not allow them to participate in the production of low- and moderate-income housing no matter what the need , no matter what the crisis , if , in fact , they exercised their constitutional rights to assist people and lead people in doing voter registration .  that is so unbelievable because , number one , it is unconstitutional .  it is absolutely unconstitutional .  this government has shown that it indeed supports reaching out to the citizens of this country to encourage them to be involved in voting and participating in this democracy .  we have the motor voter act , which says motor vehicle departments all over the country , when people register their vehicles , encourage them to vote ; give them voter regulation slips ; do whatever you can to get them involved in the political process .  we are on record with doing that .  and now to have those members from the opposite side of the aisle say that you can not produce low-income housing if you exercise your constitutional right by helping people to get registered to vote is absolutely mind-boggling .  and let me tell you what is even more mind-boggling about this .  we know that we have gone through some terrible , terrible times recently here in this country , down in florida , where there were databases that were developed of people supposedly who had been incarcerated and committed felonies that were supposedly not allowed to vote .  but it turned out to be fraudulent databases .  we have had attempts to stop people and discourage them from voting by having uniformed officers question them when they come into the polling place .  i would think that they would not want to continue with that kind of reputation .  i will not vote for this bill no matter how much it is needed , as long as the constitutional rights are violated .  mr. chairman , i thank the gentleman for yielding me time .  look , we are down here on the floor , it is empty .  maybe some folks are listening in their offices .  i hope they are .  i hope at least some of the staff , some folks may be paying attention .  our problem here is very , very simple .  over and over again our colleagues will say to us , well , i got out of this okay , or we have resolved that issue .  i am one of those folks .  i can say that .  i have had people come up and say to me , well , why are you bothering ?  pearl harbor made it out of there .  why was it taken up in the first place ?  i will tell you why .  it is politics .  this has nothing to do with whether or not there is some rational process that has been undertaken , and everybody in here knows it .  for once , can we not come down on this floor and actually vote the way all of us really understand where our responsibilities are ?  pearl harbor got brought up for a very simple reason .  they were going to close a facility up in maine , and the people in maine in their panic said , do not take us , take pearl harbor instead .  they started comparing some naval apples , some shipyard apples with some shipyard oranges , and they came up with , well , go get pearl harbor .  it had nothing to do with it .  i did not come back and say , no , no , no , not us ; go back to maine , go get them .  what kind of a process is that where we try to devour each other ?  i said , let us keep all of them open .  we need every shipyard facility that we can get in this country .  we are going to be going back out to guam soon because of what is taking place in the pacific right now , and having to recapitulate everything that got put under the water out there in guam , billions of dollars is going to have to be put back into guam in order for us to be able to protect and project our strategic interests in the pacific .  we are under a review right now in the armed services committee , and we do not even have the courage of our own convictions under our own jurisdictions in our committees .  it is not that i am right or mr. lahood  is right or mr. hobson  is wrong or right , or mr. taylor .  that is not the issue .  the issue is are we meeting our responsibilities here ?  we are constantly admonished that no sacrifice is too great .  we are constantly admonished that we have to honor the sacrifices that are being made by our fighting men and women all over the world right now .  yet we cringe from our own responsibilities as members of congress to meet those responsibilities and obligations with regard to bases .  now , i have been told over and over again , well , that is all well and good , but people are going to come down here , and you are going to lose anyway .  it happens occasionally some people come down and say , you know , i was going to vote the other way .  let us , for once , come down here , and i make this appeal out there to anybody who is thinking about coming to the floor .  vote for mr. lahood 's recommendation .  we are not down here just to hear ourselves .  when you come over here , search your conscience , and , for once , let us live up to what people expect of us in this congress .  for once let us not fulfill some stereotype that we are just going to roll over because we managed to make it out the door .  that is not what we are here for .  if this is just a job to you , then do not run again .  this is a calling .  this is a vocation .  it is supposed to be .  that is the way i feel about it , and i know that is the way most members feel about it .  they want to be able to look in the mirror at night and recognize somebody with a little bit of integrity and walk into their homes justified .  if we are going to justify our job , everybody knows in their heart that we should not be voting for this , regardless of our good friends being on it , like mr. hansen and mr. bilbray , for example , who are colleagues and personal friends to many of us here .  it is not a question of whether they did their job or did not do their job ; it is whether we are doing our job , and we are meeting our obligations .  so i appeal to everybody on their way over here .  let us vote for ray lahood 's resolution , and let us do the right thing by ourselves and the nation .  mr. chairman , i rise in support of h. j. res. 65 , to disapprove the recommendations of the base realignment and closure commission -- brac .  closing surplus military infrastructure makes sense , but only if it is done in a proper strategic context and through a rational , deliberative , and fair process .  the 2005 base closure round does not meet these tests .  secretary of defense rumsfeld proposed this brac in 2001 , before september 11 and our occupation of afghanistan and iraq .  the world changed , but the defense department 's brac process did not .  i voted against this brac in 2001 , on the grounds that it presumptively put infrastructure decisions before force structure decisions .  at the time , i said that with `` uncertainty about our future military needs in the new security environment , i believe that this is not the right time to add a new layer of uncertainty to our military communities in maine by approving a new base closure round. '' my view has been validated by the statements of the base realignment and closure commission itself .  in its final report , the commission faulted the department of defense -- dod -- for making infrastructure decisions prior to conducting a `` comprehensive review of the underlying strategic issues that is to be set forth in the [ 2006 ] quadrennial defense review [ which ] may have better informed and assisted the commission in making its final recommendations. '' the commission also criticized dod for failing to provide necessary source data on its proposals for as long as a month after the dod list was submitted .  this delay hampered the ability of the commission to do proper analysis and hamstrung communities trying to defend their bases .  my view has been validated by the overseas basing commission , which found that the `` massive realignment of forces requires that the pace of events be slowed and reordered. '' it faulted the administration 's plans to bring 70 , 000 troops home from overseas without a full analysis of the infrastructure to accommodate them .  my view has been validated by a recent revelation by brac commissioner phillip coyle that information gathered to support some of dod 's brac recommendations were based largely on google searches .  the commission observed that several dod plans to consolidate multiple military facilities were based not on in-depth analytic work but on internet search engine queries used only to match facility names and functions .  lastly , my view has been validated by the questions my constituents repeatedly asked me : why are we closing military installations when we are at war ?  why are we building new bases in iraq while closing them in america ?  will our troops in iraq and afghanistan have the right facilities to come home to ?  i do n't have good answers to those questions , but neither does the pentagon .  by pushing brac at the wrong time , our nation risks losing key assets that can never be reconstituted .  we jeopardize our security if we close infrastructure before we first come to consensus on an overall defense and homeland security strategy .  the brac commission 's decision to remove several major bases from dod 's list demonstrates that the pentagon put the cart before the horse .  for example , the commission voted to keep open the submarine base at new london , ct , and the portsmouth naval shipyard , in my district .  the commission expressed serious doubts about dod 's force structure plan and the submarine force 's ability to confront uncertain future threats .  in addition , i object to this brac list due to the inexplicable and unwise closure of the brunswick naval air station -- nasb .  this facility is the last remaining fully operational military airfield in the northeast .  its loss will hamper our capability to perform homeland defense and maritime patrol missions in the region , leaving a vulnerable flank for the entire nation .  nasb was the only major base closed by the commission that was not recommended for closure by dod .  i believe the commission failed to adequately justify its decision that the base was `` not needed. '' the commission completely ignored the combined military value judgment of combatant commanders that brunswick is a vital strategic asset .  it failed to explain how , or at what monetary or mission cost , the military could perform essential maritime patrol missions in the northeast without brunswick .  in closing nasb , the commission appeared to deviate from its own charter .  it justified closing the base merely in order to `` reduce excess capacity and result in significant savings , '' despite its own directive to seek a balance between the goals of realizing savings and rationalizing our military infrastructure to meet the needs of future missions .  i was pleased that the commission listened to the arguments put forth to them and voted to reject the closure of two facilities in maine : the portsmouth naval shipyard and the defense finance and accounting service in limestone , where the commission also agreed to double the number of jobs .  despite these positive outcomes , however , the unjustified closure of brunswick affirms my opposition to this brac list , as well as the underlying fact that this was the wrong time in our nation 's history for this brac .  the fundamental purpose of brac is to save money .  let 's put its `` savings '' in perspective .  the 20-year savings ( approximately $ 800 million ) from the closure of brunswick naval air station is the equivalent to half a week of operations in iraq .  the entire projected 20-year savings from the brac list -- $ 36 billion -- are exhausted by just 6 months in iraq .  the entire savings is also merely half that of the president 's proposed tax cuts this year -- $ 70 billion , and minuscule compared to the $ 4 trillion in federal revenue losses from upper-income tax breaks passed since 2001 .  the brac process is also a huge unfunded mandate on communities .  i commend my congressional colleagues from maine and new hampshire , governors john baldacci and john lynch , the employees , unions , management , local government officials , task force members and volunteers for the long hours devoted to defending maine 's defense facilities .  while it was a worthy cause , i regret that we were forced to spend so much time on brac , rather than on new initiatives to improve our communities .  the lost human productivity caused by brac , not only for communities but on dod personnel as well , is something we must calculate if we ever debate a future brac round .  again , i urge passage of h. j. res. 65 to reject this brac list .  in a time of uncertainty , we risk losing national assets we can never recover .  mr. chairman , i appreciate the gentleman 's courtesy in permitting me to speak against this resolution .  i understand the frustrations that have been expressed by some of our colleagues here on the floor about the brac safety valve .  i understand their frustration .  we were in the crosshairs in my community , and some of the issues that were raised earlier about the friction within the pentagon , the inability to appropriately focus on the value of the air guard and there were some other issues that were at work here .  i think this process is helping .  i appreciate the debate here on the floor .  i hope that we are able to further clarify the role that the guard , especially the air guard and ready reserve , play as opposed to the pentagon .  the brac process in our case allowed us to make the case .  we pulled together as a community .  we were able to document that the transfer of the air guard actually would end up costing the taxpayer money , and we were able to demonstrate that it would leave a whole sector of the northwest united states vulnerable , taking away critical air support that has loomed larger as we deal with the role of homeland security in our national defense .  i would hope that our friends on the armed services committee would focus on adjustments that may need to be made to the brac process to allow a higher priority attached to homeland security in these decisions in the future .  it was not as clear when the brac legislation was enacted almost 20 years ago .  i think things have shifted .  i think it is time to readjust it .  i would also hope that this would be an opportunity for us to focus on what we are leaving communities with after the bases are closed .  i have come to the floor pleading for more support from appropriations and more attention from the armed services committee to unexploded ordnance and military toxins .  the problem we are facing right now , after the 1988 brac process , we still have a dozen communities where they have not finished cleaning up those bases .  indeed , the mather air force base in california , in sacramento , closed in 1988 .  the cleanup is not going to be completed until 2072 .  that is not fair to communities where bases are closed .  while i support the brac process , i oppose the resolution .  i think , in the main , brac has worked .  i hope we are able to clarify the role of the guard and the ready reserve as it relates to national security .  i do hope this is a wake-up call to what we are leaving communities with , and we can accelerate the cleanup process .  mr. speaker , during rollcall vote no .  548 on h.r. 65 , i mistakenly recorded my vote as `` yes '' when i should have voted `` no . '' mr. chairman , i rise in reluctant support of the resolution to reject the recommendations of the base closure and realignment commission .  i support the brac process and believe that over the years it has led to the orderly reorganization of our nation 's defense infrastructure .  i believe the pentagon and the brac commission made a good-faith effort to carefully examine every base .  nonetheless , i continue to believe the commission made a terribly shortsighted decision when it voted to uphold some of the pentagon 's recommendations for naval base ventura county .  i am particularly disappointed the commission voted to move some of the rdt & amp ; e missions away from the base .  in my view , the commission ignored a number of important factors .  first , the commission 's vote went against the recommendation of its professional staff .  the staff correctly recognized that naval base ventura county has significant military value , and its missions contribute to the readiness of our war fighter .  second , relocating the vital functions performed by the personnel at the base will have lasting consequences for our national security .  the activities conducted at this site for the navy , air force , missile defense agency , and others can not be replicated anywhere else in the nation .  moreover , the base 's sea range is linked with other inland ranges in california -- providing an unmatched capability to the defense department .  the realignment will diminish these existing operational capabilities and efficiencies and negatively impact the ability of our fighting men and women to get their jobs done .  the effect of this would be immediately felt in iraq and afghanistan .  finally , realigning the base 's missions will waste , not save , taxpayer dollars .  we can not afford to spend a lot of money to move missions and personnel when there 's no long-term savings involved .  especially now that we 're looking at spending more than $ 200 billion to help rebuild the gulf coast areas devastated by hurricanes katrina and rita .  mr. chairman , the brac process must be logical and fair .  i do not believe this round of closures met those criteria .  i continue to strongly believe the missions at naval base ventura county are a critical element of our national security system and an important asset to our local community .  i urge my colleagues to join me in supporting the resolution of disapproval .  mr. chairman , i come here today to praise the men and women of the 118th air wing who fly out of nashville , tennessee .  they have been mistreated by this brac process .  i do not blame the brac commission .  i think the fault lies originally with the pentagon recommendation because they simply did not take into account one of the best flying units in america .  they are proven , they are ready , they have performed valiantly every time the nation has called them to service .  they have volunteered for extra duty .  they fly c-130s .  we have , and we soon will miss , those eight c-130 airplanes .  the bottom line for the pentagon decision , did it really have anything to do with military judgment for value or cost savings ?  no .  what did it have to do with ?  a political calculation on the part of the pentagon that because tennessee had a great air unit in memphis with c-5s and a great air unit in knoxville with kc-135s , that therefore , nashville had to lose one of the best air guard units in the country .  now , they did not close down our base entirely ; they did not have the temerity to do that , but they took all our aircraft .  they took the `` air '' out of the air national guard in nashville , tennessee .  now , members might say , well , i am just protecting a local interest .  look at the facts .  first they came at us with wrong data because the air guard unit there does not own the runways ; we only lease them from a fine commercial airport .  we got no credit for that .  so we addressed that problem .  then they did not take into account the fact that we had some of the newest and best facilities in all of our military , the number one best hangar in america , brand new , barely opened , and it will probably never see an airplane .  it won the top air force award for best hangar in the country , so why did american taxpayers pay $ 55 million for that hangar never to see it used ?  guess what , almost every other facility on that base is less than 2 years old , and we are taking away all of the aircraft .  how does that make sense ?  it only makes sense if you look at the politics .  tennessee had three bases ; they wanted to cut us down to two and distribute it more evenly around the country .  so they can take our airplanes , are they going to train the new air crews at these other bases ?  are they going to build them brand new and wonderful facilities and hangars ?  will that save the american taxpayer money when we already had one of the top units in the country in nashville performing perfectly ?  if you ask secretary rumsfeld , he knows about the men and women from nashville who have flown him wherever he needed to go , in the middle east or other places in the world .  so i am in an ironic situation .  i believe in the brac process .  i do think congress needs a restraint .  we can not just all protect our local bases , but the pentagon 's recommendation has to be based on sound military judgment , and at least in this one small case , it was not .  unfortunately , the brac commissioners did not have the temerity to override in this case , at least , the pentagon recommendation .  if members talk to top folks in the pentagon , they will tell you that from the expected savings from the brac round , they are virtually gone , because the brac commission did interfere in a lot of other bases , and some services , so 70 to 80 percent of the expected savings are not there .  i think history will chalk this up as a failed brac round , not because of nashville but because of larger issues .  so i hope and pray that when the next brac round comes around , we will do a better job starting with the pentagon and through the brac commission .  mr. chairman , i rise today in favor of h. j. res. 65 , which would reject the recommendations of the defense base closure and realignment commission .  as a member of the house armed services committee i initially supported the brac process .  it is very important that the composition of our bases and infrastructure support the operational needs of the 21st century -- a century that is emerging to be as dangerous and challenging as the 20th century .  we must adapt to new threats and challenges .  but our decisions concerning future base structure must be based on what best supports the national security of the united states .  the brac decisions regarding the air national guard do not meet this test .  consequently , i disagree with the department of defense 's recommendations concerning the air national guard .  our citizen soldiers of the air national guard are a critical part of our defense structure .  they have done heroic work since 9-11 .  we simply would not have been able to sustain the current pace of our operations without the air national guard .  the air force brac recommendations failed to fully consider the unique capabilities and civilian-military partnerships of many of our air guard facilities and the legitimate recruiting , training and retention concerns of the state adjutants .  moreover , the brac analysis did not address the potential impact of realignments on state homeland security missions .  these ill considered recommendations generated almost unanimous opposition from state adjutants .  despite the efforts of the commission , this entire process has done great harm to the vital relationships between the air national guard and the air force .  this harms our national security .  let me briefly discuss these flaws using the 118th air wing ( aw ) stationed in nashville as an example .  the decision regarding the realignment of the 118th aw , one of the premier c130h flying units in the united states , illustrates the nature of the flawed recommendations that grew out of a closed process .  first , the loss of aircraft from the air national guard and the movement of aircraft to fewer sites will have negative impact of the retention of our most experienced air crews and maintenance personnel .  unlike active duty airmen and pilots , air national guard personnel do not just pack up and relocate with their aircraft .  it is highly unlikely that the majority of the 118th aw 's highly experienced pilots and maintenance personnel will move with the c130h aircraft to new base locations .  next , consider the airmen and airwomen left behind in enclaves .  the realignment of the 118th and many similar units across the country essentially takes the `` air '' out of air national guard .  attracting and retaining highly motivated young men and women for a placeholder organization with no real mission will be difficult , if not impossible .  third , rebuilding the deep operational experience and cohesion of units like the 118th aw , forged through multiple deployments and demanding combat missions that have continued through the rescue and recovery efforts associated with hurricane katrina will require many , many years .  the direct and indirect personnel costs of realigning units like the 118th aw do not appear to have been considered in the brac process .  it takes time and money to recruit , train and develop experienced pilots and co-pilots and highly skilled maintenance and support personnel .  indeed , duplicating the skill , experience and dedication of the 118th aw may be impossible .  fourth , it appears that the air force failed to fully consider the military value of the air national guard facilities under consideration .  for example , in nashville , we have spent over $ 55 million over the last five years on military construction to include a new state of the art hangar/maintenance complex that won an air force design award .  yet it appears much of this new construction was not considered in the evaluation of the 118th aw 's `` military value. '' consequently , these excellent facilities will remain in limbo -- neither closed nor fully operational .  where is the efficiency , cost savings or operational advantage in this arrangement ?  finally , the overall brac savings are minimal .  according to the base closure and realignment commission , the department of defense claimed that their recommendations would save $ 47.8 billion over twenty years .  the commission concluded that once one time up-front costs of $ 21 billion are subtracted and personnel costs are accurately calculated the total savings to the american taxpayer will only be $ 15 billion .  this figure is likely high because costs for the retraining of pilots , air crews and mechanics are not factored into the up-front costs .  this is extraordinary .  consequently , i have concluded that the marginal fiscal benefits of these recommendations do not out-weigh the costs to our air national guard flying formations and our national security .  i will vote `` yes '' on h. j. res. 65 .  mr. chairman , today i rise in support of h. j. res. 65 .  i totally disagree with the base realignment and closure commission 's decision pertaining to rock island arsenal and other key installations across the nation , including springfield air base as well .  the brac process is seriously flawed .  both the department of defense and the brac commission failed to follow the criteria established by congress to base its decisions on military values and cost savings .  i expected the dod and the commission to follow the criteria outlined in the brac legislation .  it failed to do so .  the brac commission stated it will actually cost the american taxpayer with no further expectation of future savings .  the government will never receive a financial payback from this move .  the brac commission recommended realignment of installations in the 17th congressional district of illinois , but failed to base its decision on military value criteria .  rock island dfas was rated number one in military value , but the commission recommended consolidation at facilities rated substantially below rock island : columbus , 7 ; indianapolis , 9 ; cleveland , 12 ; limestone , 17 ; rome 19 .  the brac decisions regarding not only bases in illinois , but throughout the nation , are extremely frustrating because the commission recognized the military value and cost savings provided streamlining of bases already undertaken on a local level .  i am a former marine , and i will not surrender this fight to save jobs at the rock island arsenal .  i will continue to work with the quad city development group and local officials to strengthen the arsenal and to bring more jobs to the island .  mr. chairman , i want to thank the gentleman from peoria , illinois who has done an outstanding job in fighting this battle .  i look forward to working with him on the cleanup of this process and hope that we do not have to go through it again .  i appreciate his leading the charge on this bill today .  mr. chairman , i am proud to follow my neighbor from texas ( mr. delay )  .  ellington is in his district , but i am the next closest member .  i rise to express my disapproval for the recommendations of the defense base realignment and closure and urge my colleagues to support the gentleman from illinois ' resolution , of which i am a proud cosponsor .  this is the most ill-advised , ill-timed round in base closure history .  we currently have men and women fighting in two countries , and we passed three large supplemental requests , and the fourth likely in the next few months .  we are in the process of closing bases overseas and bringing them home .  given these uncertainties , we can not know what our base needs or our threat needs will be for the next 5 , 10 or 20 years .  ellington is home to the 147th air national guard wing , texas air national guard wing .  houston is the fourth largest city in our nation .  it is our home and has a huge petrochemical complex that accounts for nearly half of the nation 's base petrochemical production .  the houston ship channel in the port of houston handled more foreign tonnage than any other port .  we have the texas medical center and nasa 's johnson space center .  one of the most vulnerable targets in the area is the petrochemical complex , along with these other assets .  yet the base closure commission on a close vote decided to close ellington .  now , what they are doing is they are saying that we are going to provide service from san antonio , texas .  the problem is that is 23 minutes away .  as we know , an airborne attack on a refinery complex could seriously disrupt our nation 's energy supply , causing major nationwide economic impacts .  an attack on a chemical plant could result in a hazardous release and thousands of casualties .  currently our 147th air wing provides air security in the area , and the solution from the pentagon is rotating several planes to fly on alert out of ellington , which provides a much smaller deterrent than having a full squadron .  what would happen if we had multiple planes that are attacking different facilities ?  i urge a `` yes '' vote on the resolution .  mr. chairman , i rise to express my disapproval with the recommendations made by the defense base realignment and closure commission , and to urge my colleagues to support this resolution .  this is the most ill-advised and ill-timed round in the history of base realignments and closures .  we currently have men and women fighting in two countries , we have passed three of the largest supplemental requests in our nation 's history with a fourth likely in the next several months , and we are in the process of closing bases overseas and bringing troops home .  given these uncertainties , we can not begin to know what our basing needs will be 5 , 10 , or 20 years down the road .  however , instead of postponing this round of closures for 2 or 3 years like many members of the house and senate supported , one of the most contentious rounds of brac was pushed through .  like many other communities across the country , the district i represent was affected by the defense department 's plan to consolidate air national guard units , leaving one of the largest metropolitan areas in the country less prepared to respond to a terrorist attack .  houston is the fourth largest city in the nation , and is home to a petrochemical complex that accounts for nearly half of the nation 's base petrochemical production capacity .  the houston shipping channel and the port of houston handle more foreign tonnage than any other u.s. port .  also , we have nasa 's johnson space center , and the texas medical center .  one of the most vulnerable targets in the area , and possibly the country , is the petrochemical complex ; a tremendous complex that stretches the length of the houston ship channel and continues along the coast through beaumont , texas .  we have seen in the aftermath of katrina and rita the negative effects caused by disruptions in our oil supply and refining capacity , and leaving this area unprotected is leaving the door open to a terrorist attack on this critical infrastructure .  the port of houston is the second largest petrochemical complex in the world , and the largest in the western hemisphere , which produces over 35 percent of the nation 's gasoline at a great many refineries .  numerous chemical plants also line the channel , producing a number of volatile compounds .  according to the u.s. coast guard , 7 , 600 deep draft vessels arrive each year , and 60 percent of those ships carry sensitive oil/chemical cargos .  an airborne attack on the refinery chemical complex could seriously disrupt the nation 's energy supply , causing major nation-wide economic impacts .  an attack on a chemical plant could result in a hazardous release with thousands of casualties .  currently the 147th fighter wing of the texas air national guard provides air security in the area and could respond to a threat on the complex or at the port in minutes because of the close proximity .  rotating several planes to fly on alert out of ellington , provides a much smaller deterrent than having a full squadron permanently stationed there , and would not provide enough planes to respond to multiple attacks on multiple targets in the area .  meanwhile the closest full squadron would be in san antonio , and would take approximately 23 minutes longer to respond to a threat than the f-16s at ellington can currently provide .  in addition to providing security for the houston area , the 147th is capable of providing precision strikes , close air support , offensive counter air , defensive counter air , and suppression of enemy air defenses .  the area around ellington also provides the 147th with excellent training airspace , including over-water air-to-air training on the gulf of mexico allowing them to perform supersonic flights and lights out training from the surface to 50 , 000 feet .  terrorists have proven their intent and capability to attack ground targets with multiple aircraft and retiring the 147th fighter wing 's f-16s leaves houston vulnerable to an attack .  the savings estimated in the dod 's brac report are minimal and do not justify moving the f-16s away from ellington ; while it is estimated that retiring the f-16s will save dod $ 3.6 million over 20 years , an attack on any of the possible targets listed above , especially the petrochemical facilities and port of houston , would cost our national economy billions of dollars .  mr. chairman , this round of brac is ill-advised and ill-timed and i urge my colleagues to join me in supporting this resolution .  mr. chairman , i thank the gentleman from illinois both for introducing this resolution and for yielding me some time to speak in support of the resolution .  the stakes could not be higher .  of course , we should take steps , even if politically difficult , to cut waste and improve efficiency in the military .  let us look where we are .  the pentagon has recommended closures through the brac commission .  the brac commission has approved them .  now the house is going to stamp them approved before the department of defense has completed its force structure review .  this is exactly the opposite of what was supposed to happen .  the brac commissioners themselves pointed out when they began their hearings this summer that the entire process has the cart before the horse .  also , the overseas basing commission noted that the pentagon had not factored in the impact of the return of tens of thousands of personnel from europe to the united states in its brac recommendations ; and even now , we are proceeding with the brac process before the pentagon has even completed its periodic force review , which is supposed to be the blueprint for what we need for the 21st century .  so we will be closing bases , losing key personnel , diminishing critical capabilities , even before we have determined which of those capabilities we need in order to meet current and future threats .  the process , mr. chairman , has been backwards .  i certainly can find fault with some of the specifics in here .  i am very familiar with the excellent work done by the people at fort monmouth in central new jersey where they do electronics , command , control , communications , computers .  they have taken the lead in developing countermeasures to detect and disarm roadside bombs in iraq .  it is hard to think of anything that could be more important .  we know that a large number of these scientists , probably 70 , 80 percent of these scientists and engineers and procurement experts will not make the move if fort monmouth is closed .  that capability would be lost at a time that we can not afford it .  the harm to the military , to the army , and to the joint services effort , i can assure my colleagues , is much greater than the harm to new jersey .  that is why i am highlighting this example of the problems .  let me be clear , i have nothing but great respect for each of the commissioners and their staffs .  they worked for months a grueling schedule , reams of data , listening attentively , openly .  in the end , however , the commission produced a series of recommendations that could not be right because the whole thing was flawed from the beginning .  they got the cart before the horse .  in the resolution before us today , we have the means to stop this flawed and dangerous process , and it is apparent that the commissioners knew that they were not getting it right .  in the case of fort monmouth , for example , in their recommendations , they charged congress , not that they are able to charge congress , but nevertheless they did , to review their results with respect to fort monmouth to say do not go ahead with them if it might hurt the capabilities that we need to fight terrorism around the world , to support our troops in the field and iraq and afghanistan .  they actually said that in their recommendations .  they were acknowledging that they were not getting it right , or at least they thought they might not be getting it right .  they have got the cart before the horse .  it is a flawed process .  to give us a chance , i will urge my colleagues to vote for this resolution so that we can get it right .  our country 's security depends on it .  mr. chairman , i thank the gentleman from missouri ( mr. skelton )  for the opportunity to be heard .  after a series of hearings and debates today , the house will vote on h. j. res. 65 , disapproving recommendation of the defense base closure and realignment commission .  i stand here in opposition to that resolution and support the brac process .  since the department of defense released those dreaded base closure recommendations on may 13 , 2005 , elected officials , community leaders , and employees have come together to make the case for keeping their respective facilities open .  i respect the brac process .  i understand that it is necessary for the department of defense to reconfigure its infrastructure into one where operational and support capacity is optimized for both war-fighting capability and efficiency .  i also understand that the brac process assists the department in maximizing joint utilization of defense resources and reallocates military personnel from supporting and operating unnecessary and underutilized infrastructure .  however , i believe that the brac process should remain a fair process , allowing for every facility to be evaluated in a clear and consistent manner .  let me state that i am extremely pleased that on august 26 , 2005 , the brac commission decided not only to reverse its decision to close the defense finance accounting service in cleveland , ohio , but to expand and add jobs at this facility .  this facility has earned the right to remain open and continue to provide a-plus services to its executive clients and , most importantly , the men and women serving in afghanistan , iraq , and around the world .  dfas cleveland is an integral part of the nerve center that supports our troops on the ground in iraq and worldwide .  it is the homesite of the reserve pay center of excellence which processes payroll for the army , air force , naval reserves and national guard .  it has a track record of innovation and success that has been recognized on more than one occasion .  i thank the entire brac commission , particularly chairman principi and general lloyd newton , for their service .  in addition , i would like to thank the gentleman from ohio ( mr. latourette )  who is seated on the floor and his staff for all the work they did in supporting dfas , as well as the gentleman from ohio ( mr. kucinich )  for his tireless efforts .  through our collaboration , we were able to outline to the commission the various discrepancies in the initial recommendation and make a good case for reversing the recommendation for removing the cleveland dfas office .  i want to thank also the cleveland partnership and its membership .  thanks to carol caruso behind the scenes and thanks to attorney fred nance , the managing partner of squires , sanders and dempsey , who argued our case before the commission .  he was brilliant .  finally , i would like to say that this process has been a grueling process .  in the city of cleveland , we have lost so many jobs over the past 4 years .  the thought that we would lose another 1 , 200 jobs if dfas moved was just grueling , and we are thankful for the commission 's recommendation .  again , i vehemently argue in opposition to h. j. res. 65 and thank my colleagues for their support .  mr. chairman , i rise in opposition to this resolution because i believe the brac commission has performed its job admirably .  it wisely chose to remove from the closure list the defense finance and accounting services in cleveland which was scheduled to lose 1 , 028 jobs .  this came after a very strong community effort in cleveland that was led by the greater cleveland partnership and attorney fred nance , whose brilliant presentation at the brac commission hearing was quite persuasive .  it also came as a result of work that was done by our colleague from ohio ( mr. latourette )  .  the gentleman from ohio has demonstrated that a bipartisan cooperation and partnership can be quite successful in helping to strengthen a community 's economic position .  we worked together , along with the gentlewoman from ohio ( mrs. jones )  , other federal officials , and local officials to ensure that we made the best case possible as to why the people who do an admirable service at dfas in cleveland should be permitted to continue doing their work .  the 2005 department of defense recommendations put on the brac closure list inappropriately the cleveland area , and they targeted cleveland with over 1 , 000 job cuts .  we made the case that those potential job losses were unjust and unfair and counterproductive to the interest of our federal government .  the brac commission reversal wound up adding 475 jobs , in addition to saving the current jobs .  this means cleveland will host 1 , 500 dfas jobs and continue to be a major financial center for the department of defense .  the brac commission showed independence from the pentagon , which is a rare feat in washington , d.c .  and cleveland is grateful for their independence .  this shows all of us why independence in our government 's decision-making process is a crucial ingredient to ensure that the right decisions are made .  this is another opportunity to move our great city off the list of cities with the highest poverty rate .  the commission accepted the argument that the pentagon should not move jobs from cleveland , a city with one of the highest poverty rates in the nation , to other cities which ranked much lower in poverty .  so in all , i believe that the brac recommendations represented a very thoughtful , well-reasoned set of recommendations .  i was honored to have the opportunity to participate and actually see the process at work , and i was also honored to work closely with my colleagues from the house of representatives , the gentlewoman from ohio ( mrs. jones )  and the gentleman from ohio ( mr. latourette )  .  mr. chairman , i rise today in support of h. j. res. 65 , a resolution of disapproval of the 2005 base closure and realignment recommendations .  i am proud that my state delegation -- commonly referred to back home as `` team connecticut '' -- was successful in saving sub base new london from closure .  together our congressional delegation , governor rell , members of the new london community and military experts put together an airtight case for the survival of the base .  as a result , the commission realized what connecticut knew all along : that sub base new london is not only a critical asset to our state , but a vital part of our current and future national security .  the members of the 2005 brac commission were given an extraordinary responsibility and performed their duties in a thoughtful and responsible manner .  however , they were given the job of examining a flawed proposal based more on achieving the bottom line then ensuring the security of our nation .  if passed , h. j. res. 65 would put an end to the current brac process -- one that i have long believed to be the wrong process at the wrong time for our nation .  since 2002 , i have voted in the armed services committee and on the floor to either repeal or delay brac 2005 because i have felt all along that the process had serious flaws .  with 150 , 000 of our men and women in uniform serving overseas in the middle east , continued operations in iraq and afghanistan and failures to meet recruiting goals , now is not the time to close or realign major portions of our military infrastructure .  we should not be closing and consolidating bases and infrastructure here in the states now , when in another two years we may be bringing a significant amount of troops and equipment back from europe and other forward deployed locations and we would have to spend more money again to reopen or recreate space for them .  we should not be closing or realigning before the completion the final report before us for consideration includes a wide-ranging realignment of the air national guard that was completed without the input or consultation of our state governors and adjutants general .  rather than conducting an inclusive process -- as in the case of the army national guard recommendations -- the pentagon chose to craft their air force proposal by shutting out the very people that both the law and common sense dictate need to be included in changes to state guard units .  as a result the final air force recommendations disproportionately impact the air national guard , with 37 of the final 42 air force recommendations making changes to air guard units in states across the nation .  governors and adjutants general widely opposed this plan , citing the impact on recruiting and retention of guard members , lack of consultation , and reduced availability of personnel for vital state emergency response and homeland security functions .  although the commission ultimately approved a scaled down version of the pentagon 's air national guard plan crafted in the final days of their work , the final brac report states that the lack of coordination between the pentagon , governors and adjutants general `` unnecessarily cost the commission additional time and resources and damaged the previously exemplary relationship between the air national guard and the air force. '' this misguided recommendation hits home in my district and state , where the 103rd fighter wing at bradley air national guard base is slated to lose their a-10 warthogs -- leaving connecticut as the only state in the nation without an air national guard flying mission .  in presenting our case to the commission , our message was simple : the pentagon not only used flawed data that did not take into account many of the unique capabilities of bradley , but failed to consult our governor in major changes to our state 's militia .  while adjutant general thaddeus martin , the staff of the 103rd and the state delegation made a strong case for bradley , the base was unfortunately included in the final realignment plan .  the men and women of the `` flying yankees , '' and indeed all the members of the air national guard , deserve better than an ad-hoc transformation plan that has the potential to seriously impact the future of these citizen soldiers and their mission .  in late august 2005 , i joined connecticut governor rell , attorney general blumenthal and senators dodd and lieberman in filing suit to prevent the realignment of the bradley air national guard base .  we were forced to take this action because the law is simple and clear : the bradley a-10s can not be removed without the consent of our governor .  regardless of the result of today 's vote , connecticut has the law on its side and i am confident that we will secure the future of the one of our most important duties is to provide for the defense of our nation .  we should not be closing and realigning our bases at a time when our nation is engaged in the middle east and faces unprecedented threats from abroad .  rejecting brac 2005 is simply the right thing to do for our men and women in uniform , the security of our nation , and for the future of our air national guard .  i urge my colleagues to support h. j. res. 65 .  mr. chairman , as a member of the house armed services committee , i reluctantly support the brac recommendations today , and oppose this motion of disapproval pending before the house .  i support these recommendations because i believe that the goals of brac are worthy -- to maximize warfighting capability and efficiency for both traditional warfighting and counterterrorist efforts .  an integrated military force able to communicate and coordinate effectively in response to conflict remains crucial to national security and the war on terrorism .  i am concerned by technical errors and the overall process used by the pentagon and the base realignment and closure -- brac -- commission to reach the recommendations before us this evening , and it is my hope that in the future , significant improvements will be made on the current model when realignment and closure decisions are made .  however , within the current model , there are some successes to which we can point .  for instance , the pentagon and the brac commission rightly highlighted the key role that hanscom air force base , located in my congressional district , plays in our national security efforts .  the process reaffirmed hanscom 's role as the military 's pre-eminent development center for communication and intelligence technologies .  hanscom will clearly play a central role as we transform our military in the coming decades .  in its decisions on hanscom , the brac process recognized that the success or failure of a base in fulfilling its mission relies on the availability of skilled and experienced personnel and the connections that develop in intellectual clusters .  unfortunately , the commission wrongly decided to move an estimated 200 jobs from hanscom 's air force research lab -- afrl -- space and sensors directorates .  those functions are best left at hanscom to maintain existing synergies and human capital .  when the brac commission held their new england regional hearing in boston on july 6 , i submitted testimony to the commission arguing that the decision to realign the afrl at hanscom was inconsistent with other aspects of the pentagon 's analysis of hanscom , and could disrupt key programs operating there .  i am deeply disappointed by the commission 's decision to move these directorates from their home at hanscom .  i am concerned that the recommendation to realign the afrl did not appropriately value the highly skilled workforce currently at these facilities , and that the expertise of many of these employees will be lost as the recommendations are implemented .  the relocation of afrl 's sensors and space vehicles directorates will result in significant costs with few gains .  while i strongly protest this decision , i am pleased that overall , the commission 's recommendations on hanscom reaffirmed the value of the regional human capital capabilities in science and technology -- and i am encouraged by the commission 's indication that the air force will look to expand the mission at hanscom outside of the brac process .  i look forward to working with the air force as this process takes shape .  with respect to the overall brac process , i am concerned by flaws in the current model that led to a number of errors .  for instance , questions remain unanswered about the pentagon 's failure to consult with state governors , state adjutants general , and the department of homeland security on decisions related to the national guard and key homeland security functions located outside the pentagon 's bureaucracy .  these questions resulted in lawsuits against the pentagon and the brac commission by a number of states , including my home state of massachusetts .  additionally , a lack of organization was evident during the commission 's consideration of the possible expansion of hanscom , as well as the commission 's overall recommendations related to otis air force base at cape cod .  while i support the 2005 brac recommendations , i am deeply concerned that these types of errors set a bad precedent for future brac rounds .  the pentagon must ensure that the department of homeland security and other relevant stakeholders are appropriately included in their process , and that our nation 's homeland security needs are fully evaluated .  mr. chairman , today , the house will likely vote not to reject the recommendations of the base realignment and closure commission , moving the brac process one step closer to an end .  this has been a very difficult brac round for the state of maine .  when the list came out 5 months ago , all of maine 's three facilities were in great jeopardy , and few believed that we had a chance of saving any of them .  but the entire delegation , the governor , and the communities came together and presented the best possible arguments in all three cases , and as a result , maine did better than anyone thought we could .  we saved portsmouth naval shipyard and in a victory that would have been unthinkable only a few months before , we actually grew dfas limestone , bringing jobs to an area that desperately needs them .  these two actions represent tremendous victories for the people of maine .  i strongly disagree with the recommendation to close naval air station brunswick .  it was the wrong decision and i have fought it every step of the way together with the whole maine delegation .  today 's vote is difficult .  i deeply believe that naval air station brunswick should not be closed .  yet , when this process began , maine stood to loose everything , and now we have saved and expanded two of the three endangered facilities .  the likely alternatives for the state were far worse .  indeed , if this resolution were to pass today and the brac process were to be reopened from scratch , there would be no guarantee of saving brunswick , but portsmouth could be closed and limestone with its planned increase in jobs could be lost .  that is why i am going to vote against the resolution to disapprove the brac list .  as we approach the end of this very difficult brac round , it is important that we remain focused on promoting the best interests of the entire state and that we continue to work as one maine .  i will do whatever i can to make sure that we build upon the successes of saving portsmouth and growing dfas limestone , and that we make the best of a difficult situation by enabling the brunswick community to build a bright future .  mr. chairman , i thank my two very good friends , the gentleman from missouri ( mr. skelton )  and the gentleman from illinois ( mr. lahood )  for yielding me time , and i thank the gentleman from illinois ( mr. lahood )  for bringing forth this resolution , which i support because it is a resolution of disapproval .  now , you should know where i am coming from , mr. speaker .  in my congressional district there are almost 23 , 000 people being displaced because of brac .  it is the equivalent of four major military bases .  but we could accept that , and senator warner , the chairman of the senate committee on armed services , has said as well we can accept that decision , but for the fact that it is inconsistent with the brac authorizing legislation which was designed to save money and to improve military effectiveness .  it does neither .  initially , its was supposed to save $ 48.8 billion over 20 years .  the latest analysis tells us that it is actually going to save only $ 15.1 billion over 20 years , about $ 700 million per year , which , incidentally , is about as much as we spend in a day in iraq now .  so the question is , why we would be disrupting the lives of so many thousands of people if we are going to save so little money .  and , in fact , even this savings estimate is suspect because as the gentleman from illinois ( mr. lahood )  has explained , it is based upon personnel savings , and all we are doing is moving the personnel around the country .  that does not save any money .  in fact , what is going to happen based upon the surveys we have taken of the personnel that are going to be displaced from northern virginia , as many as 50-75 percent of the employees are going to decide not to move , to leave the government .  and who are these people ?  well , it turns out they are the most experienced , they are the most skilled , they are the very people that we need the most to lead our defense agencies .  in other words , this is going to cause a brain drain , and it is one that we can ill afford at the federal level .  as many of you may know , because it applies to most urban metropolitan areas , with the cost of housing , both spouses have to be in the workforce , and it is very disruptive to tell families that one of the wage-earners has to move hundreds of miles away .  in this case , the missile defense agency is a good example .  about 2- to 3 , 000 people are going to be moving down to alabama .  now , i like alabama , i like the gentleman who represents that district , but the reality is not all of them are going to move , because they like our schools , their children are in the school system , their spouses have jobs here , and most of them have security clearances , which means they are going to be picked up by the private sector in a new york minute .  is this in the national interest ?  i do not think so .  i do not think it is in the national interest .  i could see if we were going to save the money .  i could see if we were going to follow the intent of the brac process , which was to improve military preparedness , but i do not know how we achieve that .  we were supposed to take people that were in facilities that were overcrowded and move them to surplus facilities in other parts of the country .  that is not being achieved .  now , senator warner , the chairman of the senate armed services committee , did a very extensive analysis , of the brac legislation because he happened to be the architect of it , and he shows that these decisions , are inconsistent with the intent of that authorizing legislation .  that alone is reason to oppose the brac conclusions and support this resolution .  we are going to , in fact , have to spend billions of dollars on building new facilities , and the fact that that money is going to have to come out of the military construction , quality of life appropriations subcommittee where we need to be conserving money to pay for veterans health care for the thousands of veterans that are coming back from the iraq and afghanistan war , defies common sense .  i do not think this is in the national interest , mr. speaker .  i think that this body should support this resolution of disapproval until we get recommendations that show us how we are actually going to save money and improve military effectiveness .  now , secretary rumsfeld has improved new building standards , and that was the justification that the brac commission used to move these people .  and the building standards necessitate that you can not be within 100 feet of the sidewalk where the public is allowed .  you can not be near a public transit station .  you can not have public underground parking .  you can not do any of the things that you have to do in a metropolitan area like northern virginia or the washington metro area , even though we have buildings that are right on the sidewalk that are just as important in florida and texas that were not touched .  but in northern virginia they made the decision to implement these building standards as they apply to any dod agency no matter how unlikely a terrorist target that agency might be .  but there are very different building standards that apply to the department of homeland security , the department of justice , the fbi , all of these other agencies that would be just as likely a terrorist target , so it does not seem to make sense .  in fact , i question why we would have published the location of all of these defense agencies when terrorists did not know where they existed , could not even figure out the acronyms for the agencies .  but we have very different , inconsistent building security standards , one by the general services administration , which has the authorizing responsibility for building federal buildings ; and another by dod , which is not supposed to be building its own buildings , but are requiring enormous restrictions that preclude a location in a metropolitan area anyplace in the country , and that are going to cost such a premium to build , they are going to make them prohibitive for any other activity to be in those buildings .  mr. speaker , i could go on at greater length on why i do not think that these recommendations make sense from a cost standpoint , from a military effectiveness standpoint , from just a common-sense standpoint .  i will not do that , but i will summarize by again pointing out that these recommendations are going to cost billions of dollars to build new buildings for dod money that we do not have , that we are going to have to take from veterans health care .  it is not going to improve our military preparedness .  it is going to cause a brain drain in terms of many of the agencies that we rely so much on for technological superiority and intelligence .  and when you have a recommendation that causes such additional cost and is going to make it so much more difficult to implement our military mission , i think the right thing to do is to reject it .  that is what this resolution does .  that is what i would urge my colleagues in this body to do , to vote for the resolution of disapproval that has been offered by the gentleman from illinois ( mr. lahood )  so as to have the administration go back and tell us ways they can , in fact , save money , ways they can , in fact , improve the efficiency and effectiveness of our military mission .  mr. chairman , i rise in support of the bill before us to reject the brac recommendations ; and i thank the gentleman from illinois for his work on this bill .  while this process has proceeded during a global war , many of us in congress -- including me -- have taken issue with the timing .  doing this during a war and before we establish our global military footprint through the quadrennial defense review sends the wrong signal to our allies and to the soldiers and families who may depend on services at the bases we are closing .  i have fought this from the get-go .  the brac list hit my south texas district hard with the closure of naval station ingleside in san patricio county .  it was a base into which the taxpayers of nueces county and the state of texas plowed $ 50 million to assist the navy in bringing the base there .  the main thing that worries those of us in south texas -- and elsewhere along the gulf coast -- is that after brac the gulf of mexico will be a less safe place for all of us .  we have been concerned over the past couple of years about the illegal immigrants known as otms -- other than mexicans -- that are routinely released by law enforcement into the u.s. population .  many law enforcement officers believe we have -- or could be -- releasing potential terrorists who will do us great harm .  our nation 's refining capability and trading lanes run through the gulf of mexico .  for these reasons -- and many more -- we must have a navy presence in the gulf .  after brac , there will not be a single surface navy base in the entire gulf .  the gulf holds the nation 's bread basket and is the primary provider of petrochemicals and refined products to power the nation 's cars , heaters , and other machines we depend upon hourly in our daily lives .  those are my primary concerns .  now , the other concerns i have deal primarily with how the south texas community i represent will recover from the economic devastation that is part of a base closure in local communities .  as brac chairman principi said in an early statement , this will be a tsunami in south texas .  so if the house chooses to support the brac list today , we will bear no ill will ... ..  and we will work very hard to make the transition as painless as possible .  while our community is less concerned about the disposition of the property itself -- it should revert to the local port -- we believe the local community should not have to pay a $ 200 million cost to retain the base .  we are increasingly concerned about the enormous task before us in the coming years : how to deal with depressed property values after the base is to close ... ..  how to retrain the area workforce ... ..  and how our schools and housing market can recoup the losses we will most certainly feel in the coming years .  that will be the challenge before us in south texas for probably the coming decade if the house today fails to adopt my colleague 's bill to disapprove the brac recommendations .  mr. chairman , let me say initially i do not believe in the brac .  i have opposed every brac initially from the very beginning , and i have been here in congress 18 years .  the reason i do not believe in brac was somewhat articulated by the previous speaker .  i think it is a abrogation of congress ' responsibility .  there is no reason why we can not make these decisions , and to give these decisions to an independent commission , i think , is just a cop-out on our part .  so i want to start out with that .  i also want to say in this particular round in 2005 , i strongly disapproved of the brac even more so than in the past because we are in a war in iraq .  you do not shut down , in my opinion , military infrastructure at a time of war .  i think this brac in particular is poorly timed and ill advised .  now , the 2005 round of brac also was done hastily , in my opinion , with very little regard to the actual warfighter .  a number of bases with great functional value are being shut down in the name of savings .  i do not believe anyone at the department of defense or any member of the brac commission actually believes that this round of brac will actually save us any money , and i listened to many of the brac hearings .  i am also truly disappointed because i believed that the brac ultimately would try to be an independent broker and that the commission would review each facility , analyze the data , and come to conclusions based on facts .  i do not think that was the case .  the opposite was the case .  in the case of fort monmouth , which is the installation near my district , a lot of the people employed there live in my district .  we successfully proved , myself , the two senators and several other congressmen , including the gentleman from new jersey ( mr. holt )  , we successfully proved to the brac commission , in my opinion , that the army substantially deviated from six of the eight brac criteria .  the brac actually said that , that the pentagon deviated from six of the eight brac criteria .  but , even so , even though the brac was supposedly an independent commission tasked with ensuring that the dod 's recommendations would not hurt the warfighter , even though they admitted there was a serious concern about the warfighter and how in the days of fort monmouth the communications and electronics functions crucial to iraq might be seriously hampered , they still decided to include it on the list .  mr. chairman , i appreciate the opportunity to discuss this important ' legislation as i make a final push to keep forts gillem and mcpherson open by voting in support of a joint house resolution to reject the president 's approval of the 2005 round of base realignments and closures .  i cosponsored the measure , h. j. res. 65 , which disapproves the recommendations of the defense base realignment and closure commission ( brac ) as submitted by the president to congress on september 15 , 2005 .  i am disappointed that h. j. res. 65 failed to pass the house today by a vote of 85-324 .  congress had until october 30 , 2005 to pass a joint resolution of disapproval of the list .  unfortunately , this round of base closings and realignments has failed to accomplish the military goals of shedding excess operations and facilities without seriously weakening our national security and homeland defense .  i strongly oppose the president 's recommendations to close ft .  gillem and fort mcpherson , and i have tried to make a strong case in their defense at every opportunity available to me , including directly addressing members of the brac commission and urging president bush to consider their unmatched military value and unique strategic readiness for homeland defense .  my efforts to remove forts gillem and mcpherson from the brac list of closings proved partly successful since i secured the extension of six federal functions at an enclave at ft .  gillem , blocking a complete closing of the military base .  these functions include the u.s. army criminal investigation laboratory , georgia army national guard , 3rd medcom , se army reserve intelligence center , fema , and red cross .  i am very disappointed by the outcome of today 's vote and that ft .  gillem and ft .  mcpherson remained on the brac list for closure despite the vital role they continue to play in coordinating the deployment of troops abroad and federal response to national disasters like this year 's string of devastating hurricanes .  following today 's vote , the defense department is now charged with carrying out the recommended closures and realignments .  therefore , i will work with defense officials and the local redevelopment authority during the upcoming transition period for forts gillem and mcpherson .  mr. chairman , i yield myself such time as i might consume .  mr. chairman , i have long supported the base closure process as a way to eliminate excess infrastructure in the department of defense .  this is an important and very noble goal .  we need all of our resources to be devoted towards supporting our fighting men and women .  this includes having the best and most efficient facilities .  for this reason , mr. chairman , i will today vote to uphold the list recommended by the brac commission and against the resolution of disapproval .  even though i support the brac , i would like to take this opportunity to comment on the process that was used in this round of brac .  in the last three brac rounds , the defense department demonstrated that it could successfully close bases and reduce infrastructure through a measured and deliberative process .  in this round , however , neither the department of defense nor the brac commission , in my opinion , has lived up to the high standards that we set for them .  the execution of the process and the final outcome has suffered .  the end result is that i doubt we will see another round of base closures due to missteps along the way .  this is it , mr. chairman .  this is it for brac .  but even with the brac shortfalls , i feel that the congress created a law that we are obligated to follow .  while it missed some opportunities , the commission made some closures that will benefit the nation .  there are some outstanding prospects for jointness included on the list .  i sincerely hope that the department of defense will work to maximize their effect , while it works to assist communities that will be affected by closures with redevelopment .  mr. chairman , we must vote upon the product that is before us and the good that it can do .  this brac may not be perfect , but we must take the opportunity presented to us to streamline our military infrastructure .  mr. chairman , i reserve the balance of my time .  mr. chairman , i might point out to the gentleman that we in congress did pass the basic brac law which we are following today .  mr. chairman , i have come to the same conclusion as the great gentleman from ohio ( mr. hobson )  .  i have just probably been at it longer .  article i , section 8 of the constitution gives congress the responsibility to provide for the national defense .  it does not make us generals ; it does not make us admirals .  we do not tell admirals how to sink ships ; we do not tell generals how to takes hills .  we do , hopefully , provide sound business decisions for them .  the whole concept of brac is taking that decision-making process away from the people who begged for the job and were given the job by the citizens and delegating it to some other people .  i did not run for congress to delegate my responsibilities .  i take them very seriously .  the service secretaries would come before our committee , for years they have come before our committee and said , we have too many bases .  every single service secretary .  the gentleman from hawaii ( mr. abercrombie )  and i would respond to the service secretaries , name one base that you want to close .  just one .  the same service secretaries who said they wanted to cancel the crusader , who said they wanted to cancel the arsenal ship , who wanted to cancel the joint strike fighter , the same guys who have no hesitation on canceling things and making tough decisions , never named one base that they wanted to close .  we followed that up with a very simple question : in the three previous rounds of brac , can you name one weapons system that you have bought with those savings ?  can you name one additional benefit that you have given to the troops ?  can you name one good thing that came out of this ?  never once could they answer that question .  you see , brac saves no money .  what people miss in all of this is that when a base is closed , the local communities then come to congress , as they should , and say , look , you have just put all my folks out of work .  we at least want the property back .  and in every instance congress has given that property back to the locals , so there is no savings of selling off the property .  as a matter of fact , it gets worse , because our nation has to live by the same laws as everyone else .  if an individual pollutes a piece of property , they have to clean it up before they can sell it .  to date , our nation has spent $ 15 billion cleaning up properties before we gave them away .  the gentleman from ohio ( mr. hobson )  makes an excellent point : every time you lose a base , you lose a capability .  the worst of hurricane katrina hit my congressional district .  i was very fortunate to be friends with admiral mullen , the chief of naval operations .  i was very fortunate to be friends with general steven bloom , the head of the national guard bureau .  in my frantic calls to them in the aftermath of the storm begging for their help , their first response was , where can i put my people ?  name a barracks , name an airfield , name a place where i can put my people so they can help the people of mississippi .  every time you lose a base , you lose a place to put those people in the event weather , whether it is a tsunami in the pacific , a hurricane in mississippi , a flood or earthquake on the west coast , a flood in the midwest , you lose a capability to help the american people .  we are at war .  goodness gracious , we have 140 , 000 americans fighting and dying in iraq .  we have another 20 , 000-plus in afghanistan .  did anyone see these wars coming ?  the truth of the matter is , in my time in congress we have had a war in panama that no one saw coming , we have had two wars in iraq that we really did not see coming , we had a war in bosnia that no one saw coming .  so when you close a base , you close it forever and you lose that capability to respond to future contingencies .  above all , when some new weapons system comes along , you lose a place to deploy it .  right now our nation is buying 30 , 000 acres in north carolina , and some people in north carolina think it is a great idea and some people think it is a terrible idea .  we are spending a heck of a lot of your money buying land in north carolina so we can build a base to land f-18s , the newest version of the f-18 , when they come off the carriers .  then we have to buy the land and build a runway .  and everyone who has served knows it does not end with the runway .  you have to have a fire station , barracks for the enlisted , barracks for the single guys , family housing for the married folks , you have to have commissaries , you have to have fun things for the guys to do when they are off duty , because we are trying to attract young people like you to come serve our country .  all of these things cost money , and we are going to build all these things in north carolina at great expense to the public .  with you we already had all those things .  we had all those things that we are getting ready to buy and build in north carolina in jacksonville , florida .  it was called cecil field .  it had a 10 , 000-foot runway and three 8 , 000-foot runways .  it had an excellent quality of life , and it was all paid for by the american taxpayer , and a previous round of brac closed that .  so , please , proponents of this , tell me how we are saving the taxpayers money , how we are making the nation more secure , and , above all , if the service secretaries can not name a single base that they think is worthy of closing , why are we going to close so many bases in one fell swoop ?  we were elected to follow the constitution .  the constitution clearly gives congress the responsibility to provide for the army and the navy .  let us do our job and let us not hide behind some commission to do our work for us .  i urge members to vote against the recommendations of this commission .  mr. chairman , i would like to remind the gentleman that this congress closed the naval station at roosevelt roads without a brac .  mr. chairman , i would like to thank the gentleman from illinois for introducing this resolution .  i will be voting today in favor of h. j. res. 65 because i believe the brac commission 's recommendations should be overturned .  i commend the commission for their thorough and diligent work .  they certainly had a very difficult job .  however , i believe that now is not the time to implement a brac round , considering the number of operations our armed services are currently engaged in around the world .  i have great concern about the pentagon 's ability to adequately assess our needs and assets while there are so many soldiers abroad and while the pentagon awaits the results of the quadrennial review .  i am also concerned about the commission 's recommendation to place cannon air force base in enclave status .  this decision places cannon in enclave status until 2009 , or until a new mission can be identified for the base .  i do view this recommendation as a partial victory for new mexico since the department of defense initially slated cannon for closure , but i firmly believe that cannon should simply have been removed from the list altogether .  cannon offers the air force and its pilots unrestricted airspace and training ranges just off its runways .  this is a rarity in today 's air force , as more bases experience increasing encroachment .  this unparalleled airspace is in the process of being expanded , making the base even more valuable .  when approved , the new mexico training range initiative would make cannon 's airspace wider and taller and allow for training at supersonic air speed .  i strongly believe we will be able to identify appropriate missions for cannon air force base to minimize the amount of time during which the base will remain in enclave status .  nevertheless , cannon is too important to our national defense for it to be placed in enclave status .  i urge passage of h. j. res. 65 .  mr. chairman , the base realignment process is designed to provide a more efficient and effective military structure .  but , brac 2005 failed to meet these goals and that is why i will vote against implementing the recommendations of the department of defense and the base realignment commission .  the base realignment recommendations fall short because they eliminate military resources and installations without producing meaningful cost-savings .  and , the base realignment recommendations fall short because they call for the closure of naval air station joint reserve base willow grove , a military installation that plays a vital role in our nation 's security .  mr. chairman , at a time when we are fighting a global war on terror and facing new and very real threats , the nation must be fully prepared .  this brac round does not live up to the original goals of the process and , therefore , it should be rejected .  mr. speaker , reclaiming my time , let us do that .  let us defeat this now and send it to a rule .  the gentleman from california 's ( mr. doolittle )  idea of a substantive defense is maybe a tribute to the gallantry that he continues to exemplify long after it may have gone out of fashion .  he says the reason this is a good idea is that the gentlewoman from california ( ms. zoe lofgren )  said so .  i highly esteem my colleague from california with whom i disagree in this case .  but the notion that her imprimatur is in itself a substantive defense of failing to follow the regular procedure does not meet the argument .  mr. speaker , reclaiming my time , you said all of the members there present .  how many were there ?  mr. speaker , how many republicans ?  mr. speaker , so apparently four or five members have been able to do this .  i will repeat that we have heard no substantive defense of why this came .  i would agree with what the gentlewoman from california ( ms. zoe lofgren )  said , sometimes you do not know something is controversial ; but once you learn that it is , then you have the regular procedure .  mr. speaker , again , invoking one other individual does not pass for substantive debate .  i am surprised .  do you not understand what real argument is ?  mr. speaker , i rise today to oppose h.r. 1606 and ask us to come back with a procedure that will permit the shays-meehan alternative .  this bill opens a huge loophole in the campaign finance laws .  the gentleman from massachusetts ( mr. meehan )  and others have been bulldogs in moving us toward a more perfect democratic union by keeping government of and by the people , not of and by some of the people and by special interests ; and this act would not add protections of freedom of speech on the blogosphere as it is purported to do .  rather , it would bring large amounts of money back into deciding who can buy the largest microphone in a federal campaign .  it will smother , not enhance , the voices of true grassroots movements .  this would compromise not only the blogs it purports to help , it runs a great risk of harming the political procedure .  there are too many questions raised by this .  the procedure circumvents open debate .  all of us believe that bloggers should not be subjected to censorship .  i myself am an occasional guest blogger on political web sites .  bloggers , like traditional journalists , should be able to communicate with their audience without any fear of violating fec regulations .  however , this legislation is not ready for prime time .  i urge my colleagues to oppose it and come back with a procedure that will permit the shays-meehan alternative .  mrs. miller  of michigan .  mr. speaker , i reserve the balance of my time .  i do .  mr. speaker , i did opine at the hearings , since there was complete agreement among all of the members present , that we did not want to regulate the internet , that we might be able to take care of this on the suspension calendar .  and i never have felt so powerful in the minority as i do today .  mr. speaker , i was the only democrat present .  mr. speaker , i do not remember .  mr. speaker , i thank the gentlewoman for yielding me the time .  mr. speaker , i understand the procedural objections to this , and certainly when i made the suggestion during our hearing that we could probably handle this on the suspension , i believed that was the case .  obviously , there is more controversy than i had believed at the time .  but i still believe that this bill is very much worth supporting , and i do support this bill .  if i believed what the new york times and the washington post said , i would indeed be concerned .  i was a strong supporter of the bipartisan campaign reform act of 2002 .  i signed the discharge petition .  i voted for it .  i am glad it passed .  i would note , however , that what the bill before us does today is really a lot more modest than the rhetoric would lead one to believe .  it does not repeal section 441 ( b ) of the act that prohibits contributions or expenditures by national banks , corporations , or labor organizations .  and all of the hoo-rah-rah about soft money and corporate money , i am sure it is sincere , is simply , as a matter of law , incorrect .  what this bill would do would be to allow communications on the internet to avoid the heavy hand of regulation .  and i do believe that is important .  today , if a local candidate has a web page and they decide to say something very positive about the election of their party 's candidate for president , they have a problem under the fec rule .  and if my web site , lofgren for congress , links to feinstein for senate , i probably am violating the rules .  and there is no need for that .  we do not want the heavy regulatory load on the internet , nor do we need to do it .  under current law , unless we pass this exemption , daily chaos , which if they call me for a comment on a candidate and it was run on their daily web site within the specified time , we might have an actual problem here unless they are entitled to the press exemption .  it is not clear that they are .  mr. speaker , i think it is very important since the court was not sure what our intention was when we passed bcra that we should make it clear that the internet is not part of the public communications covered by the act .  i do believe that in coming from silicon valley , especially so , that the ability to use the new technology to promote the viewpoint of individuals is essential to the growth of democracy .  we have seen ever-increasing numbers of people participate in elections .  i think part of the reason for that is the ability to use the internet to communicate .  we are concerned , and rightly so , about the cost of tv .  it costs a huge amount of money to run tv ads .  well , the cost to send an e-mail is almost nothing .  so the use of the internet is a great democratizer ; that is little `` d , '' not big .  we need to make sure that communications using the internet are protected .  mr. speaker , it is worth noting that what this bill will do would be to protect the technology , to protect the internet itself .  it would not reduce in any way the prohibitions found in 441 ( b ) any more than a corporation could use its funds to buy lawn signs or political signs ; they could not pay for ads either .  and so i do think that it is worth noting that for the record i would just like to say that in this case the bloggers have got it right .  this bill will keep the fec out of the business of regulating political speech on the internet .  mr. speaker , i seek to manage the time allocated for the opposition to the motion .  mr. speaker , i reserve the balance of my time .  mr. speaker , i yield myself 35 seconds .  mr. speaker , i am a friend of the internet .  in fact , i sponsored legislation that would exempt bloggers from fec legislation .  but the issue is how we draw the lines to balance .  we do not exempt the internet from laws controlling child pornography ; we do not allow child pornography on the internet .  we do not exempt the internet from consumer safety laws .  we do not exempt the internet from intellectual property or copyright laws .  we do not because we think those laws are important .  we wrestle with the details of unavoidable and unintended consequences .  why do we do the hard work of wading through the details ?  because why would we do anything else ?  why should we disregard the integrity of the political process ?  mr. speaker , i yield myself 10 seconds .  i can appreciate the gentleman from california 's consistency .  he was opposed to campaign finance reform .  on the floor , he said he was opposed to any limit .  he would just as soon have no limits at all on any campaign finance .  he thinks corporations should give .  mr. speaker , i yield myself the balance of my time .  mr. speaker , in this time when a cloud of scandal hangs over washington , when the chief of staff to the vice president of the united states has been indicted for perjury , making false statements , when a top white house official is led away in handcuffs , indicted on charges of making false statements related to an investigation of his dealing with lobbyists , at a time when a top republican lobbyist and fundraiser has been indicted for fraud , when that investigation is the subject of a department of justice investigation , and today over in the other body there is a hearing going on looking into possible other misdealings , at a time when the american people have indicated that they are fed up with scandals , how can this house support a bill that would open up new avenues for corruption to enter the political process ?  the courts have clearly argued that the reason why you can limit campaign contributions is because of corruption and the appearance of corruption .  why would we take a step backwards from campaign finance reform and open up a loophole so big that you could drive a truck through it ?  finally , i keep hearing senator reid 's name mentioned here .  i want to assure you of something .  if the senate brings up this bill , they will get more than 20 minutes a side to discuss it .  they will discuss it for as long as it needs to be discussed .  that is what we should have done here .  mr. speaker , on that i demand the yeas and nays .  mr. chairman , the legislation under consideration today represents a vast improvement over the version of the bill as originally introduced .  thanks to the hard work and commitment of democratic members on the committee , it now offers grants to state courts so that they can make meaningful enhancements to courtroom safety and security .  it provides the us marshals service with an additional $ 100 million , over the course of the next five years , to increase ongoing investigations and expand the protective services it currently offers to members of the federal judiciary .  and it authorizes the attorney general to establish a grant program for states to establish threat assessment databases .  even with these valuable improvements , however , the bill still suffers from two fatal flaws .  specifically , its inclusion of 16 new mandatory minimum sentences and its establishment of one new death penalty eligible offense .  mandatory minimums have been studied extensively and have been proven to be ineffective in preventing crime .  they also have been proven to distort the sentencing process , and waste valuable taxpayer money .  with more than 2.1 million americans currently in jail or prison -- roughly quadruple the number individuals incarcerated in 1985 -- it 's hard to see how anyone can continue with such a deeply flawed strategy .  today , this country incarcerates its citizens at a rate 14 times that of japan , 8 times the rate of france and 6 times the rate of canada .  we spend an estimated $ 40 billion a year to imprison criminal offenders , we choose to build prisons over schools and we fail to provide inmates released from prison with the necessary tools and assistance for a successful re-entry into society .  thanks to mandatory minimum sentences , almost 10 percent of all inmates in state and federal prisons are serving life sentences , an increase of 83 percent from 1992 .  in two states alone , new york and california , almost 20 percent of inmates are serving life sentences .  we 've also noted the numerous problems that exist with regard to the death penalty .  namely , that all of the available evidence clearly demonstrates that the current system is flawed , defendants rarely receive adequate legal representation and that its application is racially discriminatory .  there are now over 100 americans that have been sentenced to death , only later to be exonerated .  proving that many of the people convicted and sentenced to death are actually innocent .  in the end , the few grants that this bill purports to offer in the area of witness protection and court security ca n't make up for its two fatal flaws .  i urge my colleagues to oppose this measure .  mr. speaker , i rise in support of the motion to instruct conferees on the patriot and terrorism prevention reauthorization bill .  this motion to instruct would take the most contentious provisions of this bill and sunset them in 4 years .  these provisions include section 215 , which allows officials to order the surrender of anything when relevant to a terror investigation , section 206 which allows secret wiretap orders without definition of who and where the tap will go , and the `` lone wolf '' provision which allows the government to surveil so called `` agents of a foreign power '' who act alone .  egregious law that robs the civil liberties of law abiding americans should be reviewed sooner than later , therefore i strongly support these sunset provisions proposed in this motion to instruct .  my constituents agree that the american people should not have to compromise their civil liberties in order to combat extremism .  the local governments of pacific grove , salinas , santa cruz , and watsonville , ca have all passed resolutions expressing their concerns with the anti-privacy and anti-liberty nature of the patriot act .  i also would like to note my disappointment that the fiscal year 2006 state-science-justice-commerce appropriations bill included one of the most invasive provisions of the patriot act that permits sweeping searches and seizures of library and bookstore patron records , despite this body 's condemnation of the provision earlier this year .  voices in the congress echo voices of people across america .  i urge a `` yea '' vote on the motion to instruct .  mr. chairman , i thank the chairman for his support .  mr. chairman , i yield myself 1 minute .  let me simply say that i think we will continue to have discussions as relates to mandatory minimums .  i think this bill has great purpose ; i think it is important , however , for us to raise those issues .  i will conclude by saying that we have a long way to go in the criminal justice system , and i hope that we will also bring to the floor of the house this whole issue of early release for those who are languishing in prisons .  i hope the good time early release bill for nonviolent prisoners in our federal prisons who are over 40 years old will have an opportunity for full debate , because they all go hand-in-hand .  mr. speaker , next tuesday is election day in many states and localities around the country .  given that we are scheduled to be in session and voting , how do you think votes might be structured that day in order to accommodate members who have elections in their states ?  mr. speaker , could the chairman tell me what appropriations conference reports we might expect to see on the floor next week ?  does the gentleman have any idea of which days they may go to conference ?  mr. chairman , on which day next week might we consider the budget reconciliation bill that calls for more than $ 50 billion in mandatory spending cuts ?  is the gentleman suggesting that we not call it mandatory spending cuts ?  you are calling it reduction , budget reduction ?  mr. speaker , i thank the chairman .  i would further like to inquire about the majority plan to extend the terrorism risk insurance act .  this is an important issue that has had broad bipartisan support in the past , and action is needed because it is scheduled to expire on december 31 .  mr. speaker , i really want to thank the gentleman for being patient .  i understand that our financial services committee democrats stand ready to work on a bipartisan basis on this , and they have asked for a markup as soon as possible .  since time is running out , i would like to ask my colleague why we could not simply take up h.r. 1153 , a bill that is a largely bipartisan product that the financial services committee reported last fall , but never acted upon .  mr. speaker , i thank the gentleman from california .  mr. speaker , i have no idea as to what the objection was raised to .  the house was not in order when the gentleman was speaking .  the house has no way to know as to what objection he raised .  is it possible for the chair to edify the house as to why the objection was made to dispensing with the reading ?  mr. speaker , my parliamentary inquiry was , could the chair share with us the reason given by the distinguished objector ?  i can not hear the chair .  mr. chairman , the entire country witnessed what happened in my district , in the fulton county courthouse , on the morning of march 11 , 2005 .  on that day , brian nichols , was to appear in a retrial for charges of rape and false imprisonment .  as he was escorted from his holding cell to change into civilian clothes for the proceeding , he over-powered the female sheriff 's deputy overseeing his transfer , stole her gun , and shot her in the face .  mr. nichols then proceeded to run through the courthouse complex , unimpeded , steal another firearm and shoot 3 more people , including long-time superior court judge rowland barnes , a revered judicial figure in the atlanta area .  mr. nichols managed to escape the courthouse and evade police for more than two days during which time he used the fire arms that he stole in the courthouse , injuring several more people , stole multiple vehicles and held one woman hostage before he was finally apprehended .  mr. speaker , this episode highlights the merits of this bill not just because of the security failures that allowed it to happen .  this much is self-evident .  in the aftermath of the security failures at the fulton county courthouse , the entire atlanta metropolitan area , an area of more than 4 million people , was on edge .  schools were put on lock down in several counties .  if we had proper security measures in place on that fateful friday morning , we could have avoided the hysteria and disruptions of normal life that followed .  my constituents , the residents of the atlanta area , and the law-abiding citizens of this great nation deserve the right to go about their daily lives knowing that our court rooms are secure .  therefore , i urge the passing of this bill .  mr. chairman , can you advise how much time remains ?  mr. chairman , i ask unanimous consent to claim the time in opposition , although i am not opposed .  mr. chairman , i wonder if the gentleman from iowa would respond to a couple of questions .  i would ask the gentleman whether or not this applies to federal officials only ; we are not imposing this on state officials .  mr. chairman , reclaiming my time , also , did the federal officials ask for this new power ?  mr. chairman , reclaiming my time , it is my understanding that this was in fact their request , in fact , their number one request .  does the gentleman have any evidence or know anything contrary to that ?  reclaiming my time , i would finally ask , is this the right to carry , subject to training and regulation prescribed by the attorney general ?  yes , in its current form , mr. speaker .  mr. speaker , when this nation has been hit with terrorist attacks or national disasters , america has always responded with a strong , decisive , generous spirit .  four years ago on september 11 , 2001 , without warning , like missiles from hell , two planes filled with the most innocent of victims slammed into the world trade center 's twin towers , 3 , 000 dead seemingly in an instant .  america 's response was quick , decisive and powerful .  on that day , we as americans took a hit , but we stood united and we responded with confidence , blue states and red states , suburban and urban , black and white , rich and poor , together , united .  everyone suffered equally and resolved collectively to rebuild , to sacrifice , to reaffirm boldly what the scum terrorists had tried to destroy .  people reached deep within themselves and from the collective heart a supremely compassionate response for and from the ages , a source of national pride forever .  confidence in public officials and institutions soared .  today , mr. speaker , we are a nation that is stumbling .  we have lost our confident and compassionate way .  in the wake of hurricane katrina , the federal government 's response was slow and sluggish , sloppy and uneven .  no one took responsibility and there was no leadership .  none .  our collective and national compassion was reduced to internal retreat and rapacious impulses .  while so-called leaders spun blame , the poor , the sick and the stranded continued to suffer .  we , as a nation , collectively fell down and hard , and against and away from the greater good that is in all of us .  mr. speaker , government-sponsored no-bid contractors at politically motivated firms like halliburton are exploiting our nation 's generosity here in america and abroad .  in the gulf coast region of this nation and in the middle east region of this world , contractors are pillaging the very people whose economic interests we have been sent here to protect .  in the midst of war and in the aftermath of natural disaster , hundreds of millions in taxpayer-funded relief and recovery are being wasted , squandered , lost forever .  mr. speaker , the motion i offer today will impose stiff fines and criminal penalties on contractors who knowingly falsify information in order to win approval of government contracts during presidentially declared emergencies .  while in this chamber the proper role of government is often debated , the one undisputed and unifying principle is that above all else , our responsibility to each other and to the american people is to protect the nation from entities who seek to injure and destroy us and from natural disasters that devastate our community .  mr. speaker , the motion i offer today at this defining moment in our nation 's history will either reaffirm the promise of our nation 's greatness or condemn us from this moment on for failing to live up to our obligations as a nation that deserves and demands only from us fairness and goodness .  mr. speaker , i urge all the members to support this motion to end this culture of corruption .  mr. speaker , i demand a recorded vote .  mr. chairman , i thank the gentleman .  mr. chairman , i thank the gentlewoman for the work she has done .  mr. speaker , i thank my friend from california ( mr. stark )  for his leadership on the ways and means committee on trade issues and especially on health care issues .  i today rise to announce that i will reluctantly vote against the bahrain free trade agreement .  unfortunately , despite the tough battle in this institution over the central american free trade agreement , very little has changed .  it is too bad because this agreement could have been a step forward , but it is the same rubber-stamp trade template this administration refuses to alter .  people praise u.s. trade representative portman for being a nice guy , which he is .  they praise him for his good manners and intelligence and straightforwardness , all of which he deserves .  he comes to the hill and talks to democrats occasionally and says he wants to work with us .  but then when you look at the text of the bahrain trade agreement , labor and environmental provisions are again given short shrift .  meanwhile , intellectual property protections , financial protections are as strong as ever .  we continue to protect corporate interests without protecting workers .  we continue to protect drug company interests without protecting the environment .  we continue to protect financial institutions without protecting food safety laws .  when i first ran for congress in 1992 , our country had a trade deficit of $ 38 billion .  a dozen years later , last year in 2004 , our trade deficit was $ 618 billion .  in this year , by the end of the year , it will probably exceed $ 700 billion .  from $ 38 billion to $ 618 billion to $ 700-plus billion in less than a decade and a half .  the deficit with china alone will approach $ 200 billion this year .  many of our trading partners succeed because they use forced labor , child labor , sweatshop labor .  they do not have the environmental protections and health regulations we enjoy in the united states .  other countries like china and japan manipulate currency to their advantage .  they do not play fair .  the united states again loses .  i would like to caution my colleagues , just because ustr is giving us major face time on capitol hill does not mean they are actually listening to what we are saying .  the overwhelming majority of members of this congress support strong labor and environmental standards for trade agreement .  we know that because they were in the core text of the jordan trade agreement which passed by a voice vote .  i was sitting on the house floor at the time .  no one , no one voiced opposition to the jordan free trade agreement which included those core labor and environmental standards .  but today the template is always the same .  the bush administration changes nothing .  every trade agreement , every trade agreement we voted on since jordan has been a step back and there is no indication that the administration even cares about that .  so do not be fooled by smiling faces and hollow pledges .  until the text of these agreements contain the same protections for labor and the environment , the same protections for labor and the environment as these agreements always include for multi-national corporations and the drug industry , the pharmaceutical industry , we should stand against them .  we all remember in july , in the middle of the night , we remember passing the central american free trade agreement .  same old story .  the debate took place late .  the votes were cast in the middle of the night .  the roll call was kept open for over an hour .  republican members had their arms twisted .  some , perhaps , were bribed .  perhaps , we do not really know that .  some may have been bribed .  some were certainly offered little goodies or at least given threats if they did not change their vote .  we know all that .  to pass cafta they had to do that in the middle of the night .  it passed by two votes .  if one member had not switched a vote , it would have been tied .  it would have been defeated .  we heard the same promises on cafta as we hear today .  more jobs , better everything for the developing world .  after hearing all of that for cafta , let me just quote from the boston globe .  the headline was : `` cafta blamed for layoffs at edenton textile plant. '' edenton , north carolina .  more than 200 employees will lose their jobs at an edenton manufacturing plant when the company moves most of its operations to central america in the coming year .  edenton town manager anne-marie knighton said the decision by the moore company is the result of the recently adopted central american free trade agreement .  it did not take long for cafta to begin to cost us jobs .  we hear the same promises in bahrain as we heard on cafta , the same promises on cafta that we heard about china , the same promises on china as we heard about nafta .  if the administration continues on its current course , we can count on a few things for certain .  our trade deficit will skyrocket and more u.s. jobs will be outsourced .  mr. speaker , i yield myself such time as i may consume .  mr. speaker , i am pleased to rise today in support of the u.s.-bahrain free trade agreement .  this agreement reflects a bipartisan effort to make a deal that is worthy of broad support both in terms of the process used and the substance of the agreement .  i want to thank the gentleman from florida ( mr. shaw )  for his help in this agreement .  i want to thank the gentleman from wisconsin ( mr. ryan )  for his persistence in keeping us focused on getting this agreement completed this year .  i want to thank the gentleman from new york ( mr. rangel )  for his help with the ustr and with the administration in pointing out the importance of making some additional changes .  i thank the gentleman from michigan ( mr. levin )  for his contributions in regards to this bill .  as you know , mr. speaker , congress uses an expedited process when it considers trade agreements .  as a result , congress gives up a lot of its prerogatives , and it is absolutely critical that in giving up these prerogatives that the administration consult and work very closely with the members of congress on both sides of the aisle in negotiating , entering into , and submitting to congress the implementing legislation .  well , in regards to the u.s.-bahrainian agreement , much of the work was done prior to the beginning of this year ; and , quite frankly , there was not as close a relationship with congress as i wanted to see .  there were things that were not complete then when the agreement itself had been finished .  but thanks to ambassador portman , thanks to the help from the majority side , we were able to continue consultation with congress on both sides of the aisle prior to the submission of the implementing legislation .  as a result , we now have an agreement that incorporates the important provisions that deal with worker rights as well as dealing with the issue of the boycott against israel ; and i want to compliment the process and the manner in which we have been able to complete this agreement .  on substance , the u.s.-bahrain free trade agreement is a good agreement for several reasons .  first , the agreement provides substantial market access for u.s. service providers , immediate duty-free treatment for all currently traded consumer and industrial products , and duty-free treatment of nearly all u.s. agricultural exports .  this is a good model for other agreements in the region and around the world .  second , bahrain has taken truly historic steps by disavowing all aspects of the arab league boycott against israel .  not only the primary , but the secondary and tertiary boycotts .  this should be the template that we use in all negotiations and free trade agreements in that region .  that is exactly what the united states should be demanding .  the third reason why this is a good agreement is that bahrain has adopted major reforms in its labor code and is committed to making further reforms .  in 2002 bahrain enacted legislation that for the first time gave workers in bahrain the right to belong to trade unions and to strike .  last month in an exchange of letters with the united states government , the government of bahrain made several additional commitments that would ensure its laws are in full compliance with basic international standards .  mr. speaker , let me just point out that the process we use is that we identified certain weaknesses in the operation of the bahrainian reform laws as it related to workers ' rights .  bahrain now is committed by letter and interpretation to comply fully with the ilo standards in four of those areas .  there are two additional areas that really require consultation with the union because they only have a single union , and under ilo standards they need to have multiple unions and need legislation to be enacted .  bahrain had filed earlier this week two of those laws to make it clear that it is not only going to be the manner in which the government enforces the laws , but the underlying laws themselves will be in compliance with ilo standards .  we also are permitted under this agreement to use the agreement in the event that we believe that they have not carried out their commitment .  so this does reflect what we should be doing on workers ' rights .  we can consider a matter arising under the fta labor chapter if in fact bahrain does not carry out its commitments as spelled out in the exchange of letters .  this will allow the united states to initiate formal consultation with bahrain on these commitments on the procedures outlined in article 15.6 of the agreement .  finally , the ustr is committed to report periodically to congress on bahrain 's fulfillment of its labor commitments .  the ustr is further prepared to invoke article 15.6 procedures if bahrain fails to carry out any of these commitments .  mr. speaker , i would note that the bahrainian actions stand in contrast to some of the cafta countries that actually weakened or proposed weakening their laws after the cafta agreement was signed .  unlike the cafta countries , bahrain is a country that is heading in the right direction with regards to labor reforms .  for all of these reasons and for the reasons that have been outlined by my colleagues , i would urge my colleagues to support this agreement .  it opens up a market in a very important part of the world .  it offers us a template for moving forward in the middle east by using economics to bring peace and prosperity to that region , which is clearly in the interest of the united states .  mr. speaker , i reserve the balance of my time .  mr. speaker , let me just remind my colleagues that we are talking about a free trade agreement with bahrain , a country whose size is about the same as the city of austin , texas , and of course a very important country within the middle east .  mr. speaker , i yield myself the balance of my time .  mr. speaker , let me thank all of my colleagues who participated in this debate .  let me , once again , remind those who are following this debate that we are talking about a free trade agreement with bahrain , a country which is about the same size as the city of austin , whose total trade with the united states is measured in terms of a couple hundred million dollars .  it is a country with a high standard of living for that region whose economy produces $ 19 , 000 plus per capita of gdp , which is about 4 times higher than we had in dealing with the cafta countries .  it is also a country that imports labor and helps actually the economy of the region because of its economic opportunities .  i mention that so we can put this agreement in context .  many of my colleagues who have spoken of concern have talked about concern on economic policies related to trade here in the united states , and i join them on many occasions , particularly as they are referring to problems that we are having with trading partners .  but that is not the issue that we have before us today .  the issue we have before us today is an agreement with a single country , bahrain .  one issue that we need to be concerned about is whether this agreement will not only advance the traditional barriers to trade by eliminating them , such as tariffs and some of the nontariff barriers , but how does it deal with issues that are becoming more important , such as workers ' rights .  on the traditional barriers of tariff and nontariff issues , i have not heard any debate against this agreement .  this agreement , in fact , removes barriers so that u.s. companies and u.s. manufacturers and u.s. farmers will have greater access to the market of bahrain .  in regards to workers ' rights , i agree with my colleagues that have spoken of concern about trade agreements .  i think it is time that we graduate international labor standards to core provisions within the trade agreements , and that we have enforcement within the trade agreements .  but i think in judging bahrain , we need to use the standard that we have used , and that is , does this nation measure up to international labor standards .  the answer to that question is yes .  they have passed major reform in 2002 .  they have acknowledged the difficulties with those laws that need to be changed .  they have issued interpretations to comply with ilo standards and have introduced laws that will correct the additional standards , and they have agreed to allow us to use the trade agreement to make sure that in fact these new laws are not only passed , but in fact , bahrain is living up to ilo standards .  that to me is good faith with an ally , and one in which we can move forward and should move forward .  so i think bahrain has passed the test on an agreement that we should support , but at times there is more than just the economic issues that affect our country that we should be looking at whether we move forward with bilateral regional trade agreements .  in bahrain 's case , i think the evidence is overwhelming .  we need to expand opportunities in the middle east .  the best chance for peace in the middle east is if we can open up the economic opportunities of that region , and bahrain offers us a country that has stepped forward and offered leadership .  in repealing the boycott against israel and saying that it wants to have open trade in the region , they will now be the fourth nation in that region that we will have a free trade agreement with .  we have jordan , israel and morocco .  so this represents an opportunity to advance u.s. interest in stabilizing a region of the world that has been of major interest to the united states .  so for all these reasons , this agreement with a very small country that will have minimum impact on the economic activities of this country , i think it will be positive , but it will be minimum because of the size of the country , but represents progress as to how we should evaluate trading relations with other partners .  are they willing to remove barriers ?  are they willing to respect international labor rights ?  are they willing to be a good neighbor in the region to advance peace and stability ?  in each of these instances , bahrain passes this test , and i urge my colleagues to support this agreement .  mr. speaker , i thank my friend from washington state ( mr. hastings )  for the time , and i yield myself such time as i may consume .  sometimes these rules cause confusion when there are two mr. hastings  managing the rule .  so in advance , mr. speaker , i am sure that my good friend and i want to make sure that there is no confusion .  mr. speaker , my good friend and colleague has already pointed out the closed rule we are working on today is mandated by the fact that we are dealing with a trade agreement .  so i take no issue with the type of rule , on this specific occasion .  however , as i said to chairman dreier last night , along with closed rules , trade agreements by our rules are supposed to come to the house floor with 20 hours of debate .  i do recognize the limiting aspect with reference to the rule , and this trade agreement is permitted 2 hours .  chairman dreier pointed out , rightly i believe , that this u.s.-bahrain trade agreement is one of the most noncontroversial agreements of this kind to come before congress in a long time , and as i said , that may be so , but it is also not the point that i wish to carry .  we have had several more controversial trade deals come before the house in recent years where we were also given 2 hours of debate time .  more recently , we saw that in two trade agreements .  trade deals should come to the floor under the 20 hours of debate that the law prescribes .  if only 5 hours or 5 minutes is what is necessary to pass the bill , so be it , but i see a bad precedent being set .  i ask my friends in the majority to let the house work its will , not so much on this bill , but certainly any other in the future that comes before us .  as to this specific trade agreement , as i have already said , it comes to the floor with the support from the administration and both parties in congress .  while i seriously doubt that free trade with the tiny island nation of bahrain is going to be the rising tide that lifts our flagging economy , after all , trade with bahrain accounts for only .03 percent of our total trade activity , i also will not try to stand in the way .  it should be noted , however , that despite its small size , bahrain runs a trade surplus with the united states , joining most other countries in the world .  so , what this agreement does is give us one more country the opportunity to sell more of its goods and services here , even more cheaply than it already does .  maybe one day soon , mr. speaker , we will find a country that the united states will run a surplus with , instead of the other way around .  one can only hope .  i do have one other very serious concern with bahrain , mr. speaker .  until recently , bahrain continued to enforce the primary aspect of the arab league boycott against israel , which bars imports of israeli-origin goods .  simply put , the united states should not trade , and certainly not enter into free trade agreements with , nations that discriminate against america 's closest and most trusted middle east ally .  the kingdom of bahrain now says they will relent .  the kingdom now says that it `` recognizes the need to dismantle the primary boycott of israel and is beginning to achieve that goal. '' let us be crystal clear , mr. speaker .  this change of heart is purely economic , and it happened just in the last month .  i suspect that it has nothing to do with the fact that an economic embargo based on religion is wrong and an affront to basic human rights .  the fact that the country 's parliament has rejected , in the last 6 weeks , the lifting of the embargo , and the kingdom has made it clear that it is not normalizing relations with israel only further proves my point .  whatever the reason , i am thrilled that bahrain will work to end the long-standing ostracism of israel by its neighbors .  it is past time .  mr. speaker , i reserve the balance of my time .  mr. speaker , the house of representatives is today considering a proposed free trade agreement between the united states and bahrain .  i support this agreement , and will vote in favor of the required implementing legislation .  i also anticipate this agreement will enjoy strong bipartisan support in congress .  in general , i have advocated free trade and open markets because i believe that american businesses and workers can compete and win in the global economy .  furthermore , i believe that increasing global interdependence presents our nation with an opportunity to promote democratic reform , the rule of law and respect for basic human rights .  the agreement provides that all bilateral trade in consumer and industrial products will become duty-free immediately , as will 98 percent of u.s. agricultural exports , with the remaining tariffs phased out over 10 years .  textiles and apparel trade will also become duty free immediately for products that contain american or bahraini yarn .  key u.s. service sectors that will benefit under the agreement include audiovisual , express delivery , telecommunications , computer and related services , distribution , healthcare , services incidental to mining , construction , architecture and engineering .  furthermore , on the issue of intellectual property rights , the agreement requires each government to criminalize end-user piracy , providing strong deterrence against piracy and counterfeiting .  beyond the economic benefits that will accrue to the united states , this agreement is an important opportunity to bring increased development , prosperity and stability to a key ally and strategic partner in the region .  not only has bahrain supported and participated in operations enduring freedom and iraqi freedom , as well as the first persian gulf war in 1991 , the country has also served as the host to u.s. naval forces in the middle east for more than 50 years .  this free trade agreement will further strengthen the already close us.-bahrain relationship .  i have and will continue to support free trade agreements that strike the balance of expanding markets for american companies , while also providing a level playing field for american workers and improved living and working conditions for foreign workers by guaranteeing fair wages and basic workplace protections abroad .  i am confident that these goals will be met with respect to bahrain , in part thanks to a number of labor reforms that have been recently implemented by the government .  i will consider future trade agreements one at a time , taking into consideration the specific labor and environmental conditions that exist in the countries we seek to trade with , as well as the provisions included in the agreements to protect workers -- both here and in the other countries -- and environmental concerns .  i will determine my position as those agreements are finalized .  mr. crowley , mr. speaker , i rise today in strong support of the united states bahrain free trade agreement .  as the co chair of the caucus on bahrain with my good friend from wisconsin mr. ryan , we have worked closely to make today reality .  bahrain has been a close friend of the united states for over 100 years and this agreement is taking us to a new level in our friendship .  this friendship is built on trust and respect for each other , so much so that the us navy 's fifth fleet operates in bahrain , a friendly and secure environment for the fleet that watches over a dangerous region .  bahrain continues to lead all gulf nations in political and economic reforms .  they have taken the bold step by rescinding its economic boycott of israel .  this lays the foundation for an economic relationship with israel that will help develop both bahrain and the entire gulf region .  bahrain conducted its first national legislative elections in over 25 years , electing 40 members to the representatives council .  women were not only allowed to vote , they also became the first women in the gulf to run as candidates in national elections .  bahrain is making the necessary changes by amending all provisions of its labor laws that so they are fully compliant with the international labor organization ( ilo ) .  i would like to commend ambassador naser al belooshi for the fine work he has done to iron out some of the labor issues that had held this agreement up .  the ambassador working with the finance minister showed great poise and determination to meet the labor requirements that democrats pushed for before we would support this agreement .  the strong labor provisions that bahrain has agreed to will help u.s. business thrive in bahrain this agreement provides market access for u.s. industrial , agricultural , and consumer products .  the agreement will greatly benefit the services sector and provide u.s. companies with the highest degree of access to service markets of any u.s. fta to date .  financial service companies will have the right to establish subsidiaries , branches , and joint ventures in bahrain .  health and life insurance companies will have market access once this agreement is enacted .  this agreement is the first step in the political and economic reforms for the middle east and i strongly believe the u.s. should continue to work with moderate arab nations such as bahrain to help balance out some of the more extreme elements in today 's middle east .  mr. speaker , i support this agreement and urge all of my colleagues to vote for this bill .  mr. oxley , mr. speaker , i rise in support of the free trade agreement between the united states and bahrain , a country which is and seeks to increase its stature as the 3leading financial center for the middle east .  as chairman of the financial services committee , i want to focus on the benefits to american financial services and economic interests from this agreement .  mr. speaker , as you know , the united states runs a large and growing trade surplus in the services sector .  it was $ 55.9 billion in 2002 and $ 96.1 billion in 2003 .  as the most innovative and competitive country in the world , the united states has a strategic interest in fostering greater opportunities for our financial firms , consultants , accountants , and other high-end service professionals to export their services and products worldwide .  this is not a zero-sum game .  the knowledge transfer from increased american exports of financial and other related services will help people in other countries develop more efficient and economically valuable capabilities , fostering economic growth abroad as well as an increased customer base for american goods and services .  the multiplier effect associated with increased access to capital for foreign firms is also significant .  to the extent that capital formation abroad also encourages growth of stock and bond markets , free trade in financial services can provide good working experience for how decisions can be taken through transparent decision-making processes which are the hallmarks of democracy .  this free trade agreement with the leading financial center in the middle east will substantially open financial services markets in the region for american firms .  at a time when high oil prices are generating large pools of capital in the middle east , we have a strategic interest in making it easier for american financial firms to provide their intermediation services in the region .  we also have a strategic interest in making it easier for middle east investors to become more integrated into the global economy .  bahrain is also a valued ally in our fight against terrorist financing .  it has demonstrated a strong commitment to cooperate with the u.s. on these issues .  bahrain 's anti-money laundering law , passed in 2001 , makes money laundering an extraditable offense .  it has a `` know-your-customer '' standard and requires all financial institution employees to take a course annually on how to implement this law .  in addition , bahrain hosts the newly created middle east and north africa financial action task force , which is the key multilateral group that creates standards throughout the region to fight terrorist financing and money laundering .  mr. speaker , let me share with you the real facts of this trade bill ; and let me thank mr. cardin , mr. levin , and mr. rangel  for really doing the heavy lifting which has created an opportunity for real debate on a good trade bill .  there are concerns that my colleagues have raised about this trade bill , but i think there are provisions and there are reasons for us to give an open and free flowing discussion to a vital partner that we have had for many , many years .  it is important to note that bahrain is predominantly a manufacturing country .  its products include oil products and aluminum products , and we know for sure it has lessened its involvement in textiles .  but what most members do not know is that 80 percent of the investment of this country has been invested in the united states .  that raises my interest .  it is invested in real estate , in banking and other opportunities .  i like trade bills that create jobs and i want to thank my friends in the labor movement who have raised concerns about child employment , about provisions that should be protecting unions and protecting workers .  i am concerned about the fact that most of these provisions are in the side letters .  it is unfortunate when the republican administration sat down to negotiate with bahrain , they did not sit down and create the intelligent and forward-thinking provisions that are in the letters created by the democratic ways and means members .  but these letters , i am told , will have the same sort of authority as provisions in the trade bill , and if they are violated , there will be opportunities for consultation in order to ensure that these provisions are made .  i will be looking forward to receiving additional information that will prohibit child labor , but i think the crux of this trade bill , with the observation that it is certainly timely , to ensure that we do think about labor issues and we fight for the labor issues .  i do not stand here to create this divide that my good friend on the other side of the aisle who said you , who are against trade bills .  no , we are not against trade bills .  but we are against trade bills that singly ignore the rights of workers .  if the democrats were in control , as we had the opportunity in the permanent normal trade relations with china , although that is not the best example , but i remember the hard work and the heavy lifting of democrats to create a better trade bill .  that is the problem we have .  that these bills are negotiated and they are , if you will , negotiated without a concern for workers .  in this instance i think the democrats have worked very hard to make this a fair bill for a partner of the united states , who has been a strong partner and a democratic partner .  i ask as members consider this legislation to look at the improvements that have been made and the side bar letters that have created the right kind of negotiated document to help the people who would be benefited in bahrain , and also help investment here in the united states .  we would like to create jobs .  mr. speaker , i rise in support of h.r. 4340 , the `` united states-bahrain free trade agreement implementation act. '' in spite of my support , i do have some concerns .  for example , as in all other u.s. free trade agreements ( fta 's ) the text of the u.s.-bahrain free trade agreement requires only that the two countries enforce their own labor laws .  it is my understanding that in 2002 , bahrain completed a major revision to its own labor laws to comply with internationally-recognized standards and to ensure that working people in its country share fully in the benefits of globalization .  however , six provisions of bahrain 's law , as currently written , raise concerns with regard to basic international labor standards .  these six provisions have been identified by the u.s. department of state and the international labor organization ( ilo ) .  these concerns force me to believe that the workers ' rights provisions in the bahrain fta are somewhat weak .  in contrast to the u.s.-jordan fta , the bahrain agreement contains only one enforceable provision on workers ' rights which is an obligation to enforce domestic labor laws .  while the labor chapter also contains a commitment to uphold the ilo core workers ' rights and not to weaken labor laws , these provisions are explicitly excluded from coverage under the dispute settlement chapter , rendering them essentially useless from a practical standpoint .  to put it bluntly , under this agreement , a country could ban unions , set the minimum age for employment at ten years old , and reinstate slave labor .  while i believe this will not happen , the fact that it could raises concerns .  before closing , let me note that i appreciate the efforts made to negotiate a commitment from the bahraini government to bring its labor laws up to ilo standards in the near future , and i hope that this agreement is honored .  i must also note that a commitment to improve labor laws in the future is not an adequate substitute for having decent labor laws in place , especially when the labor provisions in the agreement raises concerns .  to this end , i am pleased to note that i have been promised a letter from the bahrain government expressing the fact that child labor will not be an issue and that such labor will not be used as a result of this agreement .  unfortunately , if the promise is not honored , there is no recourse that can take in the context of the fta itself , other than to engage in consultations .  while i overall support free trade agreements , i strongly believe that we need to make sure that we are not setting ourselves up for a pit fall .  mr. speaker , i rise in opposition to h.r. 4340 , the bahrain trade agreement .  although our trade with bahrain is limited , this agreement is a symptom of what is wrong with our nation 's trade policies .  i firmly believe that we should have a thorough review of the impact of these free trade agreements so that we can create a national trade policy that protects the american manufacturing industries .  we need an american trade policy that encourages the export of american manufactured goods , not our american manufacturing jobs .  mr. speaker , that is why i have introduced h.r. 4407 , a bill to impose a 2-year moratorium on negotiating or conclusion of any additional free trade agreements .  as our trade deficit continues to set new records , we should call a `timeout ' on this headlong rush into these free trade agreements .  our current domestic trade policy encourages the closing down of american factories and moving them overseas , usually to a country where wages are low and environmental standards are lower .  this race to the bottom has real consequences , and it 's time to stop negotiating bad trade deals that make american jobs our leading export .  for years , the american people have been promised that bilateral and regional trade agreements would throw open the doors of international markets eager for american goods .  however , in the 10 years following passage of the north american free trade agreement ( nafta ) , which i opposed , millions of american jobs have been lost , threatening entire industries that were once bedrocks of this country .  and china and japan continue to manipulate their currencies without any significant pressure from our government , tilting an already uneven playing field further away from america .  nearly three million manufacturing jobs have been lost since the bush administration took office in 2001 .  in 2004 , the united states had a record $ 162 billion deficit on goods trade with china and a $ 617 billion trade deficit on goods and services worldwide .  eliminating tariffs and allowing companies to exploit foreign labor has destroyed entire american industries and has resulted in the highest american trade deficit ever , placing america at a huge economic disadvantage .  mr speaker , our current trade policies have failed the american worker and the average american family .  we can not continue to the hemorrhaging of our manufacturing jobs and expect our economy to be strong .  mr. speaker , i urge my colleagues to vote no on this free trade agreement with bahrain , and any free trade agreements in the future , until we can create an american trade policy that is in the best interests of the american people .  mr. speaker , i rise today in support of the united states-bahrain free trade agreement implementation act .  passage of this fta will help strengthen our relationship with bahrain , building a more secure and productive future for our countries and citizens .  as a cochair of the new democrat coalition , i have long believed that when instituted correctly and fairly , trade agreements open up foreign markets to u.s. goods , create new opportunities for companies and their employees , and lift the standard of living for people in the country with whom we are trading .  as our nation leads the world into the 21st century , we should not shy away from opportunities to guide and expand global trade .  u.s. goods exported to bahrain totaled $ 302 million in 2004 , constituting .03 percent of total u.s. merchandise trade in 2004 .  of that total , wisconsin exported over $ 4 million in goods last year to bahrain , with the majority of the exports in machinery and manufacturing .  i am pleased that the u.s.-bahrain fta will provide substantial market access for u.s. services providers , including financial services .  one hundred percent of bilateral trade in consumer and industrial products will become duty-free immediately , and 98 percent of u.s. agricultural product exports to bahrain would be immediately duty free , with 10-year phaseouts for the remaining items such as alcohol and tobacco .  moreover , securing a fta with bahrain is a positive foreign policy and national security step for the united states .  bahrain has been a strong and stable state in the persian gulf region and a friend to the united states .  the u.s. navy 's 5th fleet is based in bahrain , and the united states has recognized the importance of our relationship with this country by establishing a joint u.s.-bahrain defense cooperation agreement and designing bahrain as a `` major non-nato ally. '' this fta strengthens relations with one of our proven strategic allies in an unstable region .  further , it is critically important that trade agreements are balanced and fair for workers and companies .  i am pleased , therefore , that bahrain has agreed to take the additional steps necessary to comply with basic international labor standards that are integral to ensuring that the benefits of globalization are broadly shared among the people .  bahrain has committed in writing and with a clear and immediate timetable to amend all provisions of its labor laws that are not consistent with basic international labor organization ( ilo ) standards .  in addition , the united states trade representative has committed to report periodically to congress on bahrain 's fulfillment of its agreement and is prepared to invoke article 15.6 procedures if bahrain fails to carry out these commitments .  again , mr. speaker , i am happy to support this fta with bahrain today .  it is in our best interest to engage bahrain and complete this bilateral free trade agreement .  i urge my colleagues to support h.r. 4340 .  mr. speaker , i rise today in support of h.r. 4340 , the united states-bahrain free trade agreement implementation act .  this agreement is an example of the success that bi-partisan engagement on trade issues can generate , and this agreement should be a model , a starting point , for how we can achieve success in the future .  during consideration of this agreement in the ways and means committee , democrats expressed their concern about the treatment and application of international labor standards in the agreement .  since that time , both the administration and bahrain have worked at our urging to include bahrain 's commitments to begin applying international labor standards immediately in their county as well as their timetable to bring all of their laws into ilo compliance as conditional and enforceable elements of the agreement .  in other words , as we argued during the cafta debate , workers rights should enjoy the same level of protection we place on goods and intellectual property rights , a balance that was sorrowfully left out of the cafta agreement .  in addition to this , the bahraini government has demonstrated its world leadership by recently becoming one of the first arab league nations to remove its boycott on israeli goods and services .  these steps are encouraging , and indicate that countries are willing to accept minimum standards if the united states insists they be part of free trade agreements : the agreement shows that working together bipartisanly on trade issues will produce agreements that address the standards we feel every trade agreement america signs onto should meet : the broad fulfillment of america 's economic interests , the opening of fair markets for america 's goods and services and the reversal of america 's ever-growing trade deficit .  mr. speaker , i thank the gentleman from maryland ( mr. cardin )  for the time .  workers rights matter to the rules of competition negotiated in trade agreements .  in order to make globalization work , and i emphasize this , its benefits must flow broadly among the majority of the population , not flow to the top and merely trickle down to the rest .  to spread the benefits of globalization , workers must have internationally recognized core labor rights : prohibitions on child labor , forced labor and discrimination , and importantly , the right of workers to associate and bargain collectively so they can advance their economic interests .  this is not a pro-versus-anti-trade view .  it is a view of how to expand trade in a way to spread its benefits among the population , stimulate , where it does not exist , a strong middle class necessary for a nation 's stability and , yes , the development of its democracy , provide u.s. workers with a more level playing field , and create markets of consumers with the income of other countries to buy our products .  each trade agreement presents its own challenges and opportunities .  unfortunately , the bush administration has insisted on using a misguided , cookie-cutter approach as to the basic standard on worker rights , saying to our trading partners simply `` enforce your own laws. '' where internationally recognized standards of workers rights were well-established in law , in practice , in a nation 's history so that there was unlikely a retreat , many of us voted yes : chile , singapore , morocco .  but we always warned that `` enforce your own laws '' as a standard was fundamentally an inappropriate approach and would be subject to misuse and abuse if adopted in the future under very different circumstances .  that was vividly true in cafta , regarding the rights and position of workers .  there were major gaps in the laws , in actual practices and in the socioeconomic dynamic of those nations .  so we , in the democratic party , overwhelmingly voted no .  we insisted that an unbalanced framework for expanded globalization would in central america lead to further poverty , further insecurity and hinder democratic development .  when the administration began to negotiate an fta with bahrain , it was clear that there existed issues unrelated to economic globalization which , if negotiated effectively , would militate in favor of approval of an fta .  those included the end of the boycott of israel and its impact on the movement towards security and potential peace in the middle east and american diplomatic relations with a nation moving faster than many others in the middle east towards democratic processes .  also , bahrain had taken the first steps a few years before to reform their labor code toward providing workers with their basic international rights .  while the code was more advanced , it is true , than in many middle east nations , it still fell short in several important respects .  so , in view of all these circumstances , as the gentleman from maryland ( mr. cardin )  has mentioned , a number of us chose to work with and press the bahrainian government to bring their laws up to basic international standards .  that started an intensive process where the negotiating parties did work in good faith and where the ways and means committee at a hearing agreed , across party lines , that promises were not enough but that there must be concrete action on major gaps in labor laws .  the bahrainian government has now introduced concrete legislation , as mr. cardin  has announced , to fill these gaps in their labor code .  they will apply to both citizens and to the foreign workers who are there in large numbers .  bahrain is a small nation , 667 , 000-plus people with over 235 , 000 non-nationals , with a per capita income far higher than is true in other nations , where the majority of citizens in those nations live in poverty , and with a constitutional monarchy whose written support of these labor reforms provide confidence that the formally introduced reforms will become law .  when all of these particular circumstances are taken into account , those of us on the democratic side of the ways and means committee who have actively worked on this matter decided to support the bahrain fta .  our experience here , and i emphasize that , does not diminish but only reinforces our insistence that as we face far different circumstances , when achieving a positive result from expanded globalization confronts very different dynamics , and that is true in negotiations with latin american countries and others , our nation must do for the rights of workers what it does for all other provisions of trade agreements .  it must negotiate to place these international standards squarely in the body of the trade agreement with enforcement .  only then can we be confident that globalization will help workers in other nations uplift themselves , create a vital middle class in those nations so important to those nations , move towards international competition so that trade , as now increasingly being verbalized by president bush , is both free and fair .  only then can we be confident that competition with our workers from other countries will not be based on who can most suppress the rights of other workers and that for our own businesses , in this day and age , as mentioned , of our massive trade imbalances , there will be increasing numbers of middle income residents in other nations to buy our goods and services .  under those circumstances , i support this agreement , conditions very plainly spelled out here .  i hope this administration will take notice .  mr. speaker , continuing my support for an overwhelming majority of free trade agreements , i cast my vote in favor the u.s.-bahrain free trade agreement ( fta ) .  in the past i have expressed serious concerns over copyright provisions contained in some free trade agreements negotiated by the bush administration that arguably constrain the ability of the united states to modernize our laws to reflect the realities of technology .  i have been repeatedly reassured that notwithstanding these copyright provisions , the united states would still be able to modernize our copyright laws .  i am also pleased that in other areas of the u.s.-bahrain fta , the president finally followed democratic recommendations to ensure the adoption and enforcement of internationally-recognized basic standards for the people of bahrain .  mr. speaker , i rise today in strong support of the bahrain free trade agreement .  this agreement is good for the united states , and it is good for bahrain .  it has real trade benefits .  but beyond that , it will strengthen relations with one of our most steadfast friends in the middle east .  progress made on labor and economic reforms can stand as a model for future trade agreements with the middle east .  the ways and means committee 's bipartisan approval of the u.s.-bahrain free trade agreement is symbolic of the cooperative and supportive relationship that exists between the two countries .  this agreement will bring benefits to both countries , strengthen economic ties , and promote social , political , and economic opportunities .  the bahrainis have taken difficult , but important , progressive steps that will elevate standards in bahrain and help promote stability in the middle east .  bahrain has been a steadfast american ally through world war ii , the gulf war , and the war on terrorism .  bahrain has implemented multiple substantive reforms over the past few years , including the adoption of a new constitution to transform the country from a hereditary emirate to a constitutional monarchy , the creation of a bicameral legislature , and granting suffrage to all citizens over 18 years of age .  in addition , bahrain has made significant improvements to its labor laws and has dismantled its arab league boycott of israel .  my friends , globalization is here .  and as tom friedman indicated , yes , indeed , the world is flat .  we have made sure that we are more interdependent upon one another ; and it is good to be interdependent , because with that interdependence , we as a nation begin to depend on others in this world .  the world is much smaller than it was just 40 years ago .  as we become dependent upon one another , raising the standards of living all over this world , we then indeed ensure a safer united states of america and a more harmonized world .  i say let us vote for this .  it is good for america , it is good for bahrain , and it is good for the middle east .  mr. speaker , i yield myself such time as i may consume .  mr. speaker , i think working out the details in this bill is a classic example as to how we can be bipartisan when we really try .  there is no question that foreign policy and trade should not be a republican or democratic issue .  and the gentleman from maryland ( mr. cardin )  made up his mind that we were going to stick to it to make certain that some of our concerns about the basic protection of workers was going to be included in the bill .  and while the language is not specifically in the bill , in talking with the representatives from the bahrain government , especially the ambassador that showed us a sincere desire to make certain that he accommodated not republicans or democrats , but his respect for this body , we were able to persuade most of the members on our side that this was something worth doing , not only because of economic reasons , but because of the courageous acts that were taken in the middle east by this very small country .  mr. speaker , in closing , though , i would also like to point out that the gentleman from wisconsin ( mr. ryan )  , a junior member of the committee , spent considerable time working with us and working with us through the united states trade representative in order to make certain that we reached this conclusion , and i will be supporting this piece of legislation .  mr. speaker , the first thing is , here we go again .  if we are rewarding an ally for helping us in iraq , where i understand there are no bahranian troops , but we have got a navy base .  well , if we are paying off for a navy base , how about cuba ?  why do we not throw these guys in ?  i think we have got a big base in cuba where we are torturing prisoners , so why not toss them in if that is the reason for going into this free trade agreement .  the problem with the bahrain free trade agreement is the same ones that we have had with australia , morocco , cafta .  and the administration keeps sending the same flawed arguments and agreements .  i have supported trade .  but it has got to be fair before it can be free .  and unfortunately , this administration does not see it that way .  like our recent free trade agreements , it fails to promote basic labor rights , environmental standards , and is a payback or a sell out to phrma for letting the pharmaceutical industry write into these agreements wording that extends their patents and extends the time before generic medicines are available .  now , it may be that bahrain is somewhat richer than other nations and can wait longer , but it is a bad policy .  you are going to hear today about bahrain 's labor rights .  that is great .  but it does not hold them responsible for maintaining those improvements .  it is sort of enforce your own laws , and bahrain could change those laws tomorrow .  the same hollow standards apply to environmental protections .  they could be changed .  my 10-year-old son wishes that he could have enforce his own bed time .  but that is not the way it works , mr. speaker .  until the core international labor organizations standards and strong environmental protections are included in the text of the agreement , we should all vote against these free trade agreements .  if you trust the administration to tell you the truth , maybe you could vote for it then .  but i think recent experience in the war , in torture , and other instances have shown us that those assertions are subject to question by reasonable people .  so this agreement , like many other bills , helps big pharma .  it does not do much for labor .  it does nothing to assure us that we will have environmental safety in bahrain should they , god help us , ever run out of oil .  and it seems to me that we are giving away a lot of our american rights .  and i urge any of you just to remember the disagreement we had many years ago over china .  and many of us said , the minute you give permanent most favored nation to china , you will never again be able to negotiate with them .  look at the footage when our delegation was in china and the hands that went in front of the cameras as china prohibits free and open press coverage of what goes on there .  until we are ready to get fair exchange for these free trade agreements , we are selling our american heritage .  i urge a no vote on the bahrain free trade agreement .  mr. speaker , i reserve the balance of my time .  mr. speaker , i yield 5 minutes to the gentleman from ohio ( mr. brown )  , a colleague nominated for the nobel prize in literature for his best selling book `` the myth of free trade , '' also an author who understands that the king of bahrain was not elected .  i do not care what kind of a democracy it is , kings do not get elected .  and if my good friend from wisconsin had suggested that we could take our troops out of iraq immediately and substitute this cockamamie free trade agreement , i would join with him in that , but i am not sure that that is what he thought .  mr. speaker , i reserve the balance of my time .  mr. speaker , i yield myself the balance of my time .  mr. speaker , i would like to associate myself with some of the remarks of my distinguished friend from maryland .  he is right , bahrain is a flea on the elephant when it comes to the difference that it will make in economic impact to the united states .  but if we really wanted to help in the middle east , maybe we would have sold parts for c-130s to iran and saved 100 people from dying because of our embargo on selling aircraft parts to a country that could not maintain safe aircraft because the united states refused to deal with them .  maybe we ought to question whether this vote is really whether you trust the administration , an administration that many people think lied to us about getting us into war in iraq in the first place .  many people think the administration is lying to us about torturing , and here we are talking about what is supposedly a democracy .  is this any more of a democracy than saudi arabia ?  it has a king .  it votes , maybe .  i think that the real issue is if we do not get it in writing , if we do not have enforceable rules , can we trust the administration or will the administration continue to sell out to the pharmaceutical industry , which will harm the people of bahrain , in repayment for campaign contributions ?  these are the kinds of things that are at issue here .  do you trust this administration ?  do you trust them to help anybody but the very rich ?  do you trust them to keep their word about what they are doing ?  and if you do not , as many of us do not , you will voice that protest and vote against this bill .  mr. speaker , it is with some hesitation that i rise in support of the u.s.-bahrain free trade agreement or fta .  as the home to the 5th fleet of the u.s. navy , bahrain is a key gulf ally .  i believe this agreement will reinforce that bond with stronger economic ties .  the bahrain fta also presents an opportunity to build upon trade agreements with morocco , jordan , israel and the palestinian authority and provides an incentive for economic integration throughout the region .  another reason i support the agreement is that the bahrain government has formally abolished all laws related to the arab league 's boycott of israel .  this is an important precedent for the upcoming fta negotiations with the uae , oman , egypt , and other middle east nations .  while i am disappointed that the saudi arabian government refused to take the same action in the process of its accession to the worid trade organization , i am hopeful that future trade agreements will be an effective mechanism to make this unfair and illegal discrimination a relic of the past .  in addition , bahrain has taken significant steps to adopt laws that reflect the five core standards of the international labor organization and the ustr has agreed to periodically review bahraini compliance with these laws .  there was an exchange of letters to clarify that the u.s. can seek enforcement of bahrain 's labor laws under the labor chapter of the fta .  labor laws should be enforceable in every fta .  while the issue should have been dealt with inside of the agreement , rather than in a side letter , the bahrain fta highlights the missed opportunities on labor protections in our trade agreements with chile , singapore and central america .  the reason i hesitate is that the bahrain fta also has a series of pharmaceutical protections to delay the approval and availability of generic medicines .  provisions such as these , which have been included in the intellectual property chapter of a number of recent agreements , are a serious mistake .  they fail to take into account the needs of poor countries where the absence of generic competition can mean the difference between life and death .  they undermine the doha declaration , which was adopted to make it easier for countries to respond in the event of a public health crisis .  they do not reflect the careful balance in u.s. law between the protection of innovation and access to affordable medicine .  i voted against the central america and morocco ftas precisely because i felt strongly that the adoption of these measures by such poor countries would significantly reduce access to medicine .  the difference here is that bahrain is a relatively wealthy nation with a strong public health structure .  health care in bahrain is delivered through a system of public hospitals and clinics that are available for free to bahraini citizens and accessible to foreign residents for a nominal fee .  while the fta 's pharmaceutical rules are ill-conceived and will create additional burden and expense for the bahrain government , the changes should not diminish access to care .  it is hard to fathom , therefore , that the same provisions are being negotiated right now for an fta with four andean nations .  bahrain has a population under 1 million people and a low incidence of infectious diseases .  in contrast , colombia , ecuador , peru and bolivia have a combined population of nearly 100 million and more than 200 , 000 patients suffering from hiv/aids .  health care coverage in these countries is available to few and many live in extreme poverty .  the contrast is stark .  yet , the ustr is adamantly pursuing a `` one size fits all '' approach that would require the andean nations to adopt the same pharmaceutical protections adopted in bahrain .  the pharmaceutical industry has spoken openly about its efforts to raise drug prices and profit margins around the world .  drug companies are aggressively trying to use trade agreements to force policy changes they could not otherwise achieve .  it is time for the ustr to stop callously helping them put profits ahead of public health .  the damage in bahrain may be limited , but the consequences elsewhere may be severe .  mr. speaker , i rise in support of the rule and the underlying bill , the u.s.-bahrain free trade agreement implementation act .  through cooperation -- democrats working alongside republicans on the ways and means committee , who then coordinated with the administration -- we have before us a strong trade package that will open markets , advance free trade and cement america 's ties to a strategically important ally in the middle east .  and with the changes that are coming to bahrain 's labor laws , this agreement will ensure that the fundamental rights of workers are protected .  it is my hope that in the future , these worker protections will be incorporated into the core of trade agreements , rather than through side agreements .  this is a standard to which the united states should hold all its trading partners .  though the magnitude of this particular trade pact is relatively small , the global trading system is at a critical juncture .  the united states ' leadership on trade is being tested -- here in congress and in geneva .  for that reason , i am pleased that today we have both parties working together to advance free and fair trade .  i hope that this agreement receives broad support and that july 's contentious and mean-spirited cafta debate is the low point , only to be seen in the rearview mirror .  because in the long term , the only way for america to continue to lead the world forward on trade is for us to work across the aisle here in the house .  i urge my colleagues to allow today 's debate to serve as a first step toward reviving the bipartisan consensus on trade policy that has served this congress so well in the past .  mr. speaker , i ask unanimous consent to revise and extend my remarks .  mr. speaker , this bill is easy to describe -- tax cuts for millionaires and tax increases for the middle class .  this bill misses the biggest tax cut priority of this congress -- the alternative minimum tax , or amt .  the amt was designed to prevent the wealthy from avoiding federal taxes by taking too many exemptions , but it was never adjusted for inflation .  therefore , many middle-class american families are being affected and penalized .  yet , instead of solving the problem of the amt and helping middle class families , this bill only focuses on helping the rich get richer by extending capital gains and dividend tax cuts that do n't expire until 2009 !  this tax cut means that taxpayers with incomes below $ 40 , 000 -- the majority of taxpayers -- will get about one percent of those cuts , an average of $ 3 a year .  those with incomes above $ 1 million -- one in 500 households will get 53 percent of the cuts , an average of $ 38 , 000 per year .  mr. speaker , even by this republican congress ' standards , this tax cut legislation is insulting .  and because this bill will add $ 1.9 trillion to the deficit it is doubly so .  that is why i support the democratic alternative that would instead fix the amt for couples making less than $ 200 , 000 per year , reducing middle class taxes instead of increasing them .  further , the democratic alternative would be fully paid for by slightly reducing recent tax cuts for those making more than $ 1 million per year .  america needs fiscal discipline like we had during the clinton years .  the $ 5.6 trillion surplus projection from 2001 is now a $ 3.5 trillion deficit -- a swing of $ 9.1 trillion !  tax cuts to millionaires have dropped revenues from 20.9 percent of the gdp in 2000 to just 16.3 percent , while spending has increased 1.4 percent .  mr. speaker , the blue dog coalition has the message right -- we need to restore fiscal discipline .  defeating this bill would be a good first step .  mr. speaker , since i first came to congress , i made it a priority to restore sales tax deductibility for my constituents in washington state .  last year , working with a bipartisan coalition lead by mr. kevin brady  and myself , we did successfully do that .  this deduction saved washington state taxpayers over $ 500 million last year alone .  unfortunately , the sales tax deduction will expire at the end of this year , and we must extend that deduction .  accordingly , i applaud both the democrats and the republicans for including in their packages a 1-year extension .  frankly , i would like to have made it a permanent extension .  nevertheless , i am concerned at a time of war in the aftermath of this country 's most devastating natural disaster how we can in good conscience support a tax bill that will add at least $ 20 billion to our national debt to provide a tax break that goes predominantly to the wealthy , and by that i mean the capital gains and dividend tax cut .  earlier , the distinguished chairman of the rules committee said the american people get it .  i have to say , i just had five town halls in my district ; the american people do get it .  they get that this bill , the republican majority bill , is passing on enormous deficits to our children .  debt to our children , that is what we are doing .  the democratic substitute , by comparison , is revenue neutral .  it extends the tax breaks that benefit small individual taxpayers and small businesses , and it extends sales tax deductibility without increasing the deficit .  what is more , the democratic substitute protects taxpayers against the amt hit as people 's income brings them into the amt category .  if my friends on the other side of the aisle want to say if we do not extend the dividend and capital gains tax cut , we have an automatic tax increase , why not say the same about the amt fix ?  you have not chosen to put the amt fix in your bill .  does that not constitute an automatic tax increase ?  i believe it does .  the democrats have prevented that .  the difference is this : when republicans talk about choices , the choices they are talking about is whether the most wealthy people in this country will choose to take their earnings , or winnings , from capital gains or dividends .  the poor people in this country have to choose between heating their houses and providing food for their children .  mr. speaker , i am well aware of the issues with amt .  the issue with me is this : you have not paid for it ; the democrats have .  what you are not talking about is you are passing deficit on to our kids .  you are passing debt on to our kids .  i visited with high schools and had town halls last weekend , and people said they are desperately concerned about the size of the nation 's deficit and the size of the nation 's debt .  the democratic package is paid for ; the republican package is not .  the democratic package does support small businesses and low-income folks and supports the middle class .  the republican package , the bulk of the economic benefits from these tax cuts go to the people who need it least at a time when we are fighting a war and trying to recover from a disaster .  i think that is a mistake .  we support tax cuts , but we would target them to the people who most need it ; and you target them to the people who most want it , but least need it .  that is the fundamental difference , and i think the american people see that difference .  mr. speaker , like many of my colleagues , i spent much of the thanksgiving recess holding office hours throughout my congressional district to listen to the concerns of my constituents .  understandably , i heard how worried they are about skyrocketing energy prices , our lack of progress in iraq , rising health care costs , and the recently passed budget cuts that predominately hurt the poor .  one need look no further than the tax bill on the floor today to see why many americans are frustrated and disappointed with the work of this congress .  republicans just do n't seem to get it .  instead of trying to make progress on the pressing issues facing american families , house republican 's top priority is passing this $ 56 billion tax bill that primarily benefits wealthy investors .  h.r. 4297 is truly shameful as it clearly puts enriching the wealthiest americans before the biggest concerns of working americans .  the centerpiece of the republican 's tax bill today is a $ 20 billion provision that would extend tax rate cuts for investors who receive capital gains or corporate dividends .  according to citizens for tax justice , the vast majority of americans would receive no benefit at all from this tax provision .  specifically , 78 percent of americans would get no tax benefit from the capital gains and dividends provision , while an additional 10 percent would get less than $ 100 .  in my home state of wisconsin , the wealthiest 1 percent of taxpayers ( those with an average income of more than $ 1.3 million ) would receive 43 percent of the tax benefits , or an average tax cut of $ 18 , 523 in 2009 and 2010 combined .  this bill does contain a number of tax measures i strongly support , such as the extension of the important research and development tax credit , the state sales tax deduction , and the college tuition tax credit .  these provisions are good for our nation and working families , but they should not be simply used as `` sweeteners '' to garner more support for the underlying bill and more tax cuts for investors .  i find it heartless that republicans would bring this bill to the house floor right after they i passed a budget reconciliation bill that makes harmful cuts to health care for children and the elderly , food stamps for needy families , student loans , and child support enforcement .  let us be clear : these $ 50 billion in budget cuts were made solely to pay for these tax cuts for the wealthiest americans .  how can any member of this congress who has an ounce of compassion -- justify making college students , the poor , children , and the elderly shoulder the cost of providing more tax cuts for the wealthy ?  i certainly can not .  in wisconsin , 91 , 000 children lack health insurance , up over 7 % in just the last year .  american families are struggling with soaring costs for fuel , housing , health care , child care , and college .  yet today , this congress again turns a deaf ear to those concerns -- not to reduce the deficit , not to pay for the war in iraq , not to help the hurricane and tornado victims of 2005 , but simply to satisfy those whose greed has no bounds .  mr. speaker , h.r. 4297 is a sad indication of who house republicans are fighting for in this congress .  it should come as no surprise as we have seen the very wealthiest americans receive special tax breaks every year since president bush took office .  the question today is whether this house will ever stand up for the many , not just the few , with budget and tax policies focused on need , not greed ?  i strongly urge my colleagues to vote against this bill .  mr. speaker , i thank the gentleman for yielding me this time .  mr. speaker , i urge the members of this body to support the rangel substitute .  if we recall the words of a famous president this country had , a man of heroic proportions , harry truman , he said , `` the buck stops here. '' and , unfortunately , we are forgetting the words of harry truman because today it seems like the mantra of the leadership in this house of representatives is the buck stops with your children or perhaps your grandchildren , because we are in a portion of our nation 's history where we have run up national deficits bigger than we have ever seen in our life .  we run up deficits in 1 year that it would have taken 200 years of presidents to run up in the history of this nation .  mr. speaker , in a time of disasters , rita , katrina , on and on ; in a time of massive deficits ; and in a time of war , it is irresponsible to run up the nation 's debt .  it is irresponsible to then give money to run up this debt and give it to the wealthiest americans in this nation .  mr. speaker , it is irresponsible to put debt on top of massive debt when we know at the end of the horizon there is still more debt that will come in the years to come : $ 27 , 000 is what each and every man , woman , and child in this country owes as a result of our nation 's debt .  it is irresponsible , mr. speaker , to take social security surplus money , which the president said back in 2001 he could protect and never touch as he moved forward with these tax cuts .  it is irresponsible , mr. speaker , to take those social security surpluses and then contribute them to the wealthiest americans .  in essence , we are gifting the social security surplus moneys contributed by working americans ; we are gifting that to the wealthiest americans in this country through these tax cuts .  mr. speaker , it is irresponsible to move forward with these tax cuts at the same time that we are telling american families , mostly middle class that rely on student loans so they can send their young men and women to college , their young daughters and sons are going to have to pay $ 5 , 000 more a year in their student loans so we can take care of the 1 percent wealthiest americans in this nation in these bills .  it is irresponsible , mr. speaker , to move forward in that way .  it is irresponsible then to further say we still need to make more cuts and we need to go into the foster care program and take $ 600 million out of the foster care program which helps us take a child out of an abusive home and move that child into a safe setting .  it is irresponsible to take $ 5 billion out of a child support system that says to deadbeat dads that we are going to take money from them , we need to enforce that , to take $ 5 billion , make it into cuts , and therefore make it more impossible for us to get those deadbeat dads to help the mothers who are taking care of their sons and daughters in this country .  it is irresponsible .  mr. speaker , it is responsible when we have a democratic substitute , as mr. rangel  has , that says we are going to cut taxes , but in a targeted way , for the middle class , in a responsible way by making sure we pay for it so we do not increase the size of the deficit .  and that is what should pass , mr. speaker .  president truman was right .  the buck stops here .  let us do it today for ourselves .  let us not leave the debt to our children .  mr. speaker , let me thank the gentleman from new york for yielding me this time , and thank him for putting together a substitute that makes sense , that is an important bill .  yes , it is important to extend the expiring tax provisions , and the rangel substitute does that .  research and development , the work opportunity tax credit , all the important tax provisions that will expire , the substitute extends those provisions .  that is important .  the rangel substitute does another thing that is extremely important .  it deals with the alternative minimum tax affecting 16 million of our taxpayers of the 19 million that are under the alternative minimum tax .  that is very important to get done .  and the rangel substitute deals with that .  the rangel substitute deals with other inequities in the tax code , correcting them and getting them done right .  but the substitute does one more thing that is very important to be done , and that is it is fiscally responsible .  it does not add to the national debt .  we have huge deficits , and where do you think we get our money in order to pay the bills ?  money is coming , not from foreign investors or u.s. investors , it is coming primarily from foreign-owned banks who are buying our currency not because it is a good investment , they are buying it in order to have a favorable exchange rate with the u.s. dollar so that they can send more products here into the united states .  it is important that we be fiscally responsible , that we do not add to the deficit .  the concord coalition , a nonpartisan group that is only interested in trying to deal with the national debt , said that tax cuts need at a minimum to be offset , that we should not add to the deficit through the tax bills .  the rangel substitute pays for these tax reliefs .  it is fiscally responsible .  it not only provides relief in the tax code that we need to provide for the taxpayers of this country , it does not burden this nation and the future generations .  and by the way , it is also good for growth .  our deficit hurts growth in this country .  the rangel substitute is sensitive to the need for us to make sure that we are on the right glide path to create jobs in our economy .  mr. speaker , this is the right thing to do .  we want to provide tax relief , but we should do it in a way that does not burden our children and grandchildren .  i urge my colleagues to support the rangel substitute .  mr. speaker , i rise day in opposition to h.r. 4297 , the tax relief extension reconciliation act .  i do so because i do not believe we should be cutting taxes for the wealthiest americans while we are at war and at the same time cutting programs for our most vulnerable populations and adding to the staggering debt load of our children and grandchildren .  this bill is not fiscally responsible , and we neglect the ramifications of the budget priorities of the majority party to the detriment of the country .  governments on every level -- from local to federal -- are running record deficits ; the number of uninsured americans is on the rise ; people continue to go without heat , food or shelter as an abnormally cold winter persists ; and the cost of health care and education continue to rise .  the tax cuts contained in h.r. 4297 overwhelmingly benefit affluent investors in the wake of the house cutting programs for the poor by $ 50 billion in the name of deficit reduction .  we continue to spend over $ 6 billion per month in iraq and cut taxes while asking the least well off to pay for it .  it 's reverse robin hood -- taking from the poor and giving to the rich -- and this is something i can not and will not support .  we must take stock and look at the reality of our fiscal situation -- deficits are rising with no end in sight -- while the poor , the sick and the elderly pay the price .  i believe tax cuts can be part of a reasonable approach to the federal budget , but that we have reached a point with our deficit and debt where we must exercise extreme caution in using them .  as robert bixby of the nonpartisan concord coalition was quoted in today 's washington post , `` if they ( republicans ) want to cut taxes , fine , but they are going to have to cut spending by at least that much to help the deficit , and clearly they are not willing to do that .  they ( republicans ) have to start looking reality in the face. '' the $ 5.6 trillion surplus that existed in 2000 has been squandered .  future generations will pick up the tab .  the republican tax cut bill is bad policy and i urge my colleagues to join me in voting no on h.r. 4297 .  it is extraordinary .  if you assert something that is not true , it is true on the floor of the house .  there is no truth test here .  cut taxes for the rich , it will stimulate the economy .  put the little people to work who will pay taxes for their job cutting the lawns or washing their yachts .  that is the argument we are hearing from that side of the aisle .  trickle down economics works , they tell us .  unfortunately , that is not what most americans find with their real incomes stalled out over the last 5 years .  no , trickle down economics does one simple thing : it rewards the benefactors of the republican party .  let us just look at one of the elements of the `` not raising taxes today. '' it would be let the tax cuts in dividends on stocks .  now , i go to my town meetings and i say , everybody who has dividend paying stocks , raise your hand .  and i have a lot of people coming to my town meetings , but usually it is one , maybe two .  and i think that is pretty much the same across america .  but the millionaires and , yeah , the billionaires , they have a lot of dividend paying stocks .  in fact , their tax cuts average now , that is not even talking about the dividend tax .  let us talk about the dividend tax .  this bill will extend the cut in dividend taxes .  now , the american enterprise institute , no liberal bastion there , they just issued a report and it says the dividend tax break has not generated more business investment or jobs or productive economic activity but it has enhanced investor wealth .  that is what this is about .  this bill is to enhance investor wealth .  now , they have a newfound concern about the sea of red ink they have created , the 60 percent increase in our debt in the last 5 years .  so a couple of weeks ago we jammed through a bill at 2 a.m .  in the morning that cut things like student financial aid , medicaid , health care to poor people , dumping that burden on the states ; foster care , long-term care , the school lunch program .  those little kids are just eating too much .  they are chowing down .  they are going to help the obesity problem on this side of the aisle by starving kids .  now , what are we buying with those cuts ?  well , the student loan cuts , they say , oh , we are not cutting student loans , we are just charging them more for the loans .  right , you are not cutting student loans , you are just increasing their debt burden .  you are not cutting the loans , you are just jacking up the interest rate , charging them twice as much to take out a loan , and charging them a special new fee to get a very high fixed interest rate , something they can get now for free at a lower rate .  but they are not whacking the students too hard , only $ 14 billion .  and what do we get for that $ 14 billion ?  an extension of the dividend tax cut .  that is great .  so now the wealthy will be able to buy more yachts to float on the sea of red ink that the republicans have created .  they will be able to hire more help around the mansion .  that is trickle down economics .  they talk about how great the economy is doing .  here is a few facts .  unemployment rate , yes , it is recently down , but it is up eight-tenths of a percent over when the republican administration took charge .  there is 1.6 million more unemployed workers than when george bush took office .  there is the slowest private sector job growth of any administration since herbert hoover .  he is doing better than herbert hoover .  that is great .  the largest projected surpluses turned into the largest projected deficits , with $ 4.2 trillion more debt in 2008 .  now , that is the grand success of trickle down .  and they come out here and assert baldly that giving tax cuts to rich people will not only stimulate the economy , put people to work , but that it will reduce the deficit .  sure .  you really believe that ?  i do not think so .  the american people do not believe it .  what you are doing here is giving very generous tax cuts to the people who give you very generous campaign contributions .  mr. speaker , when this administration took over the white house , the united states enjoyed a multi-billion dollar budget surplus .  but a republican-controlled congress proved unable to stay the course .  instead , our public surplus has been surrendered -- surrendered to special interests and their corrupt coterie of cronies .  every time big oil or halliburton or some other corporation that shifts its jobs and its profits offshore comes up here and asks for another tax break , this congress waves the white flag of surrender .  the commitment to any fiscal discipline is in full retreat .  now we have huge deficits as far as the eye can see .  at a time of war , republicans demand no sacrifice from those at the top , no sacrifice from multinational corporations ; and they demand that those at the bottom sacrifice their all .  under this bill , the few individuals making over $ 1 million per year are rewarded , on the average , with over $ 50 , 000 in tax breaks .  so those at the top , they can add another fancy foreign car to their fleet .  but for the many who are earning up to $ 40 , 000 a year , that is over half of the people of the united states , they get an average of $ 30 , maybe enough for a full tank of gas .  once again , america sees that a true republican christmas is one where only the silk stockings get stuffed .  and when the bill for this lavish christmas give-away comes due , who is going to pay ?  our children will pick up the tab in the form of endless national debt and with cuts to child care , cuts to assistance to abused and neglected children , cuts to child support enforcement , and cuts to student financial assistance .  the tax-writing body in this chamber has truly become the `` committee on greedy ways and shifty means. '' and this will be remembered as the `` cut-and-run '' congress , cutting taxes greatly for the few , while running trillion-dollar deficits for the rest of us .  mr. speaker , i rise today in strong opposition to this republican plan for the wealthiest americans .  president kennedy once said , `` to govern is to choose. '' so let us look at the choices .  this tax cut falls on the heels of a deficit reduction plan passed before thanksgiving that cut children 's health care , child care assistance , college aid , child support , and will actually increase the deficit by $ 20 billion .  that is what they refer to as new math in america .  what kind of congress calls this fiscal responsibility ?  a republican congress , but of course .  with all the problems facing middle-class americans , soaring energy costs , coupled on top of skyrocketing health care costs , educational expenses , and flat incomes 5 years in a row , what is the solution offered by this republican congress ?  cut capital gains and dividend taxes for millionaires .  it is time for a change in new priorities rather than that same old tired failed policies that got america to where it is today .  this budget cuts $ 9.5 billion , adversely affecting $ 6 million children 's health care .  it cuts 40 , 000 children from nutritional assistance .  it cuts child care assistance leaving 330 , 000 children without child care assistance .  it cuts $ 14.5 billion from student aid and college assistance .  it cuts child support collections $ 4.5 billion .  this budget gives a whole new meaning to women and children first .  and what do they do in return ?  fifty-three percent of the benefits of this tax cut on dividends and capital gains goes to people earning $ 1 million or more , and 62 percent of the benefits go to those earning $ 500 , 000 or more .  what kind of congress would throw children over the side to pay for more tax cuts for the wealthiest americans ?  a republican congress , but of course .  these are the wrong priorities for america .  we can do better .  it is time for a change and for a new direction .  mr. speaker , i rise in strong opposition to this latest wasteful republican tax bill and in strong support of the rangel substitute .  the rangel bill is a responsible effort to extend needed tax relief and protect middle class americans from the alternative minimum tax ( amt ) , but the underlying legislation is the latest installment of the failed republican budget policies that have devastated this country 's finances and much of our economy .  i strongly believe that congress must return to the values of balanced budgets to restore growth and opportunity to our nation 's economy .  i am tremendously proud that in my first term in the u.s. house , congress and the white house worked together in a bipartisan manner to balance the budget for the first time in a generation .  that responsible budget helped usher in a period of robust , broad-based economic growth and produced record budget surpluses .  unfortunately , the current white house and republican leaders in congress replaced that budget discipline with record deficits , exploding national debt and unbalanced budgets in perpetuity .  this bill represents more of the same .  the current republican tax cuts will cost our budget $ 81 billion over ten years , while at the same time , republican leaders have proposed devastating cuts to the farm bill , food stamps , child support enforcement and medicaid .  furthermore , h.r. 4297 , the tax reconciliation bill , raises the taxes of nearly 17 million middle class families in america , by leaving out a provision to extend the higher amt exemptions that expire in a few weeks .  in contrast , the rangel substitute would exempt from amt increases every family with taxable income under $ 200 , 000 per year .  it includes $ 42 billion in tax cuts over five years targeted to spur economic growth through the research and development tax credit , small business expensing and other initiatives .  the rangel bill maintains budget discipline by paring back the president 's tax cuts for those with annual taxable income above $ 1 million .  finally , the rangel bill keeps our word to the families of our soldiers in iraq and afghanistan by maintaining their eligibility for the earned income tax credit .  i urge my colleagues to support the rangel substitute and vote against h.r. 4297 .  mr. speaker , today we return for part two of the budget reconciliation bill .  just before thanksgiving , the republican majority cut investments in education , american competitiveness , and programs for the needy .  today , they will give a tax cut to the top 1 % .  it is a reverse-robin hood value system .  apparently , the republican leadership thinks that the middle class is not working hard enough .  they believe that the middle class needs to work harder so that the top 1 % can take home more money .  today , mr. speaker , we have a moral decision to make .  i believe it is immoral to cut $ 50 billion from medicaid , food stamps , student loans , child care payment enforcement , and foster care in order to pay for a $ 56 billion tax cut for capital gains and dividends .  people with income of more then one million dollars -- the top two-tenths of one percent of the population would get $ 32 , 000 dollars .  most tax filers , those with income below $ 40 , 000 , would get $ 7 .  those with income above $ 1 million -- not just those worth more than a million , but those who have income and stock market earnings of more then $ 1 million each year -- would receive about half of this $ 56 billion tax cut .  worse yet , you may have noticed that if we cut taxes by $ 56 billion and cut spending by $ 50 billion , we have increased the debt .  we have gone from a projected 10-year surplus of $ 5.6 trillion to a projected deficit of $ 3.5 trillion .  with the deficit projected to rise to $ 640 billion by 2015 , this is no time to pile on even more .  this bill will force us to borrow more from china .  this is more debt we will force our children and grandchildren to pay interest on .  and for what ?  so the wealthiest 1 % can get an even larger tax break .  mr. speaker , i believe there are problems with our tax system .  i have supported tax cuts in the past and i have worked with members on both sides of the aisle to achieve them .  however , today we are ignoring a tax problem that affects my constituents greatly .  many of my middle class constituents are forced to pay the alternative minimum tax ( amt ) .  this year , 3.5 million taxpayers will owe amt .  yesterday 's amt tax bill was just a sham , and is likely to go nowhere .  with this package , republicans knowingly and deliberately have removed the amt correction and thereby will increase the taxes on more than 17 million middle-class working families next year by failing to extend the higher exemptions for the alternative minimum tax ( amt ) that expire in several weeks .  we could solve this problem today by slightly reducing the recent tax cut for those making more then $ 1 million a year .  republicans are so determined to extend tax cuts for the wealthy that they are willing to deny relief to the middle class .  mr. speaker , these votes ae about our priorities and values .  i ask my colleagues to change the priorities of this congress .  mr. speaker , here we are just 2 weeks after house republicans claimed that they were restoring fiscal discipline to the federal budget considering a tax bill that will make our deficits worse and drive our nation even further into debt .  in 5 short years , the republican party 's failed economic policies have instigated $ 1.57 trillion in budget deficits and added $ 3 trillion to the national debt .  by the way , during the last 4 years of the clinton administration , we added not a nickel to the national debt and all 4 years we had a surplus .  even alan greenspan , the chairman of the federal reserve , is sounding the alarm .  he recently said , `` we should not be cutting taxes by borrowing. '' that is what we are doing .  but with this bill republicans are doing precisely that .  now the republican response will be as predictable as it is wrong .  they will claim that tax cuts pay for themselves , but at long last can we dispense with this supply-side snake oil .  last month the incoming chairman of the federal reserve told the senate , `` i think it 's unusual for a tax cut to completely offset the revenue loss. '' that is president bush 's appointee to the federal reserve .  and the comptroller general of the united states , david walker , recently stated , `` anybody who says you 're going to grow your way out of this problem , ( deficits and debt ) would probably not pass math. '' even the president 's council of economic advisers admitted in 2003 , `` although the economy grows in response to tax reductions , it is unlikely to grow so much that lost tax revenue is completely recovered by the higher economic activity. '' that is why we have $ 1.75 trillion in additional deficits in 5 years and $ 3 trillion of additional debt .  so my republican friends can stop pretending that the tax cuts in this bill will somehow magically pay for themselves .  you are suggesting cuts twice as large as you were prepared to cut in spending .  they will not .  finally , let me say that this tax bill perfectly illustrates the republican party 's misguided priorities .  its centerpiece is the capital gains and dividend cuts from 2008 to 2010 .  who do you think benefits from that ?  certainly not those making less than $ 50 , 000 a year .  they will receive 3 percent of the capital gains tax cut .  the fact is 80 percent of the capital gains tax cuts go to those with incomes more than $ 200 , 000 ; and more than 50 percent goes to those with incomes over $ 1 million .  meanwhile , this majority has refused to address the alternative minimum tax within this bill , thereby exposing nearly one-third of taxpayers making between $ 75 , 000 and $ 100 , 000 to higher taxes next year .  i urge my colleagues : vote for fairness .  vote for fiscal sanity .  vote for the democratic alternative .  mr. speaker , we have before us a very important piece of legislation , h.r. 4297 , the tax reconciliation act .  it is very important to understand this piece of legislation within the big picture the republicans are painting here .  just last month , the republicans passed a bill called `` the deficit reduction act. '' this was a spending cut bill that slashed funding to many vital programs my constituents depend on , including to medicaid , student loans , food stamps , and child support programs .  the republicans lectured us on the need to make sacrifices to control the national debt .  by passing the spending cut bill , the republicans actually asked the poor , the downtrodden , the disabled and the young to sacrifice on behalf of the rest of the country .  now we are faced with the tax reconciliation act , which will actually add $ 86 billion dollars to the deficit over the next 5 years .  this proposed tax cut will not help the poor and middle class , either .  an estimated forty percent of the tax cuts will go to families with incomes of $ 1 million or more , and 84 percent of the major tax cuts in this bill will go to the richest 20 percent of families .  in fact , under this bill , over 17 million middle class americans will face a tax increase next year from the alternative minimum tax ( the amt ) !  an important aspect of this bill is the house 's failure to adequately address the amt .  the alternative minimum tax was enacted over 35 years ago to ensure that the richest americans would pay their fair share of income tax .  unfortunately , when the amt was enacted , congress neglected to index the tax rates to inflation .  the amt has now begun to add an extra burden to middle class taxpayers at an alarming rate .  the senate bill provides $ 30 billion for amt relief to the middle class , while the house republican leadership could only find $ 2.8 billion for this cause .  republicans could n't find the money to adequately pay for amt relief for the middle class .  they ca n't find any money for tax relief for those affected by hurricane katrina in the gulf coast .  last month , the republicans could n't find the money to spare the elderly from medicaid cuts , to spare the students from loan increases , or spare our children from child care cuts .  they could n't find the money because they are choosing to extend the dividend and capital gains tax cuts for the richest in our country .  this is not how we take care of our own in texas , and this is not how we do things in the united states .  the republicans are launching an unabashed attack on the american way by ignoring the neediest in our country to give tax cuts to the richest .  mr. speaker , the decision to vote up or down on this legislation is n't a blurry line involving political ideology ; it is n't a debate of republican vs .  democratic philosophy .  the priorities in this bill are misguided .  congress should not be providing additional tax breaks for the rich less than a month after huge spending cuts aimed at the most vulnerable .  congress should not be providing tax cuts for the rich in a time of war !  in the end , this tax bill will either exacerbate our already large federal deficits , or will force even deeper cuts in critically important domestic programs .  i am strongly opposed to this legislation , and i implore my colleagues on both sides of the aisle to vote against these unreasonable cuts and instead consider the revenue neutral democratic alternative .  mr. speaker , i would like to compliment my chairman , mr. charles rangel , for his leadership on this issue .  i am glad to be on the ways and means committee and glad to have the opportunity to talk about some of these taxing issues .  it just amazes me that the majority can stand here and have the gall to tell veterans that they are going to treat them better , to tell the people of america that they are better at solving problems than the government and so we are going to give them two cents back to pay for a $ 100 bill ; to have the gall to say that we are not going to create bigger government and then they created the biggest institution ever , the homeland security department ; and that has not taken care of poor people across this country , particularly the victims of katrina and rita as it goes on .  but can you imagine they will not tell the american people the truth .  they will not tell them that last week we reduced programs so that this week we could extend taxes that do not even need to be extended .  can you contemplate that the extension of the capital gains dividends is going to cost us $ 50.7 billion over the next 10 years .  now , work with me for a moment .  if you work with me , you could understand that with that $ 50.7 billion , 12 , 571 , 089 people could have health care coverage ; 959 , 230 elementary school teachers could be paid ; 7 , 331 , 106 head start places for children who need a head start could go back to school ; 32 , 565 , 528 children could receive health care ; and , more importantly , we could build 6 , 514 new elementary schools in these united states .  but , instead , we are going to extend taxes beyond this year when we are still at war in iraq and we are spending billions of dollars a day to give the iraqi children what we will not even give our children right here at home .  my math works better than that .  see , i know one plus one equals two .  i understand that it is these united states that is supposed to be taking care of our babies and giving them a chance to go to school and giving them a chance to go to college .  and for them to have the gall to say that a janitor sitting on a stool is going to save some money or get some money on capital gains , give me a break .  you know it is not the janitor sitting on the stool ; you know it is the man who owns the janitorial company .  mr. speaker , i thank the gentlewoman for yielding me this time .  what the majority is seeking to accomplish here is another transfer of wealth from the great mass of americans to a privileged few .  this bill would raise taxes on 17 million american middle-class families by as much as $ 640 .  millionaires get tax cuts as much as $ 32 , 000 .  people who bet on the market are going to see their taxes cut or reduced , while workers are not going to see that kind of relief because this bill is about a transfer of wealth upwards , a transfer of wealth from the poor and the middle class to the wealthy .  more than half of the american taxpayers will get less than $ 30 out of this so-called tax cut ; yet that is what this administration 's strategy has been all about .  there has been no trickle-down benefits from their previous tax cuts of over a trillion dollars .  americans ' savings have disappeared , credit cards are maxed out , home equity is exhausted , foreclosures have increased , pension funds are disappearing , health care benefits for many have been cut or eliminated .  there are 45 million americans without health insurance .  the wealth in this country is being transferred upward , and as wealth accelerates upward , the quality of our democracy is deteriorating .  this bill continues that trend with spending cuts suffered by college students , suffered by senior citizens and children and family farmers .  my colleague congressman lewis asked what would jesus do .  we know his teachings .  he said whatever you do for the least of the brethren , you do for the lord .  this bill does not do for the least .  it does for those who have the most .  there is a transfer of wealth to the great mass of americans to a few as a matter of policy here .  it is tax cuts , it is the war , it is all of the spending that is accomplished by our majority brothers and sisters goes to help those who are wealthy become wealthier .  that is not how you can maintain a democracy .  the tax system is central to making sure that we stay a democracy , and yet what we see here is the beginning of a plutocracy by continuing the acceleration of wealth upwards .  we need to take stock and assessment of what these tax policies are doing to undermine people in this country , of what these tax policies are doing to make it impossible for a middle class to survive , of what these tax policies are ignoring in terms of trying to protect america 's manufacturers .  there are auto workers and steel workers who are looking for a way for businesses , their industries , to survive ; and instead we are worrying about accelerating the wealth upward .  we need to take stock of this .  this is not only a fiscal question .  it is a moral question , and the arc of our moral fiber here is going to be determined on whether or not we can stand up to this challenge about accelerating the wealth upwards .  mr. speaker , today i rise in strong support of the rangel substitute to h.r. 4297 , the tax reconciliation act and in opposition to the underlying bill .  instead of stopping a tax increase for the middle class in 2006 , republicans have chosen to keep taxes low for the wealthiest americans in 2009 .  what kind of priorities favor the wealthy in the future over working families today ?  we can ill afford the continued `` tax cut and spend '' mentality that has marked the house during the last few years .  without a change in fiscal policy , future generations will be buried under a mountain of debt created by congress .  the bill before us today has many provisions i support , including the extension of the research and development tax credit , small business expensing , the deduction of higher education expenses , and brownfield sites expensing .  in fact , i am a cosponsor of a bill to make the research and development tax credit permanent , as it keeps american companies competitive and provides a strong incentive for businesses to invest in the future and create jobs .  i also support other provisions in this bill that help make college more affordable to millions of students and allow teachers to deduct out-of-pocket expenses .  unfortunately , the republicans did not stop there .  h.r. 4297 also includes a two year extension of the capital gains and dividend tax cuts , which are not scheduled to expire until 2008 .  nearly half of these tax cuts will go directly into the pockets of the 1 in 500 taxpayers who earn more than $ 1 million per year .  the contrast is stark : those who earn less than $ 40 , 000 will see an average tax cut of $ 7 , while those earning more than a million will save an average of $ 32 , 000 in taxes .  while republicans claim that the dividend tax cut boosts the economy , the facts are not on their side .  the federal reserve board recently released a report declaring that the dividend tax cuts of 2003 have not boosted the stock market .  to quote the report , `` we fail to find much , if any , imprint of the dividend tax cut news on the value of the aggregate stock market. '' there you have it : the nation 's top economists have determined that dividend tax reduction does not boost the stock market or increase wealth for shareholders .  most disingenuous is the fact that just three weeks ago , the house voted to cut medicaid , student loans , foster care assistance , and food stamps under the guise of deficit reduction .  however , today , we are voting for tax cuts that cost more than the money saved from the spending cuts .  the republicans have exposed their real agenda : they are robbing the poor to pay the rich .  this year , we have a projected deficit of more than $ 300 billion .  in addition , we will spend billions more in iraq and afghanistan , as well as rebuilding the gulf coast in the wake of hurricanes katrina , rita , and wilma .  we simply can not afford all of these emergency expenses while cutting taxes for the richest americans .  thankfully , there is an alternative .  the rangel substitute includes all the noncontroversial tax extensions i mentioned earlier and also contains three important provisions not found in h.r. 4297 .  first , the substitute drops the capital gains and dividend tax cuts in order to fix the alternative minimum tax ( amt ) .  the substitute would eliminate amt liability for individuals who earn less than $ 100 , 000 and joint filers with incomes below $ 200 , 000 , cutting taxes for 16 million families .  without this provision , more than half of all families with two children and incomes between $ 75 , 000 and $ 100 , 000 will be saddled with the amt .  this tax increase hits the middle class , and the republicans are content to sit idly and let it happen .  the democratic amt fix is similar to the senate-passed tax reconciliation legislation , which would ensure a speedy conference and protect taxpayers before the provision expires at the end of the year .  in addition , the substitute extends the tax-free status of combat pay .  while our military personnel are risking their lives abroad to keep us safe , the least we can do is prevent burdening them and their families with a huge tax increase .  best of all , the substitute is fully offset , and will not add a dime to the national debt .  the rangel substitute will revive the economy , relieve the tax burden on working families , encourage companies to invest in the future , and create jobs .  the republican bill will hand out money to rich people and increase the deficit .  the rangel substitute is a common-sense alternative that prevents a tax increase on working families , honors our troops , and does not cost a dime .  we need responsible tax policies instead of the reverse robin hood approach taken by republicans .  i urge my colleagues to join me in supporting the rangel substitute and opposing the underlying bill .  mr. speaker , i rise in support of the democratic alternative to h.r. 4297 , tax relief extension reconciliation act that would provide real tax relief to working families and help the economy grow .  the underlying bill is more of the same -- more fiscally irresponsible policy .  the president 's policy of `` stay the course '' is not working ; it 's not working in our foreign policy , domestic policy , budget policy or tax policy .  more of the same is just not working and now is the time for a new direction .  unlike the reckless tax bill on the floor , the democratic alternative would help more americans help themselves and ensure that as a country , we move forward together .  among other things , the democratic measure would exempt every family making less that $ 200 , 000 from the alternative minimum tax ( amt ) .  the democratic measure would also provide $ 42 billion in targeted tax cuts including , deductions for state and local retail sales taxes , deductions for college tuitions expenses , a research and development tax credit , a small business expensing tax credit , and a larger earned income tax credit for the families of those serving in iraq .  most importantly , the democratic alternative would be fully offset instead of pushing the country further into debt like the republican bill .  the truth is that more than one-half of all taxpayers would get less than $ 30 in tax relief from this bill , while those who make over a million dollars a year would get an average tax break of $ 32 , 000 .  supporters of the capital gains and dividends tax cuts have tried to characterize them as offering benefits that are more broad-based than amt relief .  however , in reality , households with incomes between $ 100 , 000 and $ 500 , 000 would receive 87 % of the benefit of amt relief , compared to 62 % of the benefit for capital gains and dividends tax cuts .  where are the priorities of this house ?  what message are we sending to the american people ?  it 's time for a new direction because more of the same failed policies are n't working .  americans deserve better .  i urge my colleagues to join me in rejecting the underlying bill and supporting the democratic alternative that would provide real tax relief and strengthen our country .  mr. speaker , the issue here is priorities and choices .  there are some similarities , but the differences are vast .  let us look at the whole picture here , the whole picture .  you have an alternative minimum tax that is going to hit millions of people if we do not act .  we have $ 45 billion in extenders on which there is basic agreement .  we have a reduction in the capital gains and dividends tax which continues for the next few years .  we have proposed budget cuts .  we also have the alleged , by the republicans , need for fiscal discipline .  so what are their choices , because you can not really do everything .  so here is their choice : extend the dividends and capital gains reduction that continues in any event , extend it to 2009 and 2010 even though over 50 percent goes to people making $ 1 million a year .  that is their first choice .  their second choice is budget cuts : cuts in student loans , cuts in child support .  and i want to say to my colleague from michigan , administrative money for child support goes to raise money for children , not for bureaucrats .  it is 4 to 5 dollars for every dollar we provide in administrative support .  essentially , what the republicans do is to reduce the amount of money going to kids over the next 10 years by $ 24 billion .  their choice also was to leave out the amt from this bill , but then they bring up a bill yesterday , do not pay for it , and it can be objected to in the senate and may not happen at all .  so their choice is clear : tax relief that goes to people making a million bucks or more and cutting student loans , cutting food support for people who need it , and cutting child support which will mean reductions of $ 24 billion over the next 10 years .  that is what the choices are here .  mr. speaker , they do not even maintain fiscal discipline , because if the amt thing were to happen , it would be unpaid for and would add to the deficit .  our substitute has very different priorities .  i urge its adoption .  mr. speaker , i want to thank the gentlewoman from new york for yielding me this time .  mr. speaker , once again , i rise in disbelief about what the house is about to do today .  it is my belief that we are moving down the wrong road .  before we left for thanksgiving , the republican leadership twisted arms to pass a bill slashing funding for vital programs that benefit the neediest americans .  some might say that the bill was callous .  i say that the bill was immoral .  today , it is still immoral , uncaring , and without compassion .  but now , to add insult to injury , we have returned to washington so that the republican majority can line the pockets of those at the very top .  that is right , they cut vital programs and services that benefit hardworking , low- and middle-income americans , and with the money saved they are giving more tax cuts to the wealthiest of the wealthy .  and in the process of robbing working families to give to the rich , we are ballooning the debt , saddling our children and grandchildren with the bill .  everybody loses under this bill .  everybody .  that is except the top one-fifth of 1 percent .  some might call them the super rich ; apparently the majority calls them donors .  it is unbelievable .  it is unbelievable that we are doing this during this season .  the holy season .  it is unreal .  this season , of all seasons , you would think they would not have the audacity , the gall to pass such a disgraceful and shameful piece of legislation .  oh , but they do .  where is our compassion ?  all of the great religions of the world speak to the issue of taking care of basic human needs .  during this season , the question must be asked : what would the great teacher do ?  what would jesus do ?  we are saying we are people of faith , and yet during this most holy season we do this ?  have we lost our way ?  how long , but oh , how long will we continue to take care of those at the very top and not those in the middle and those at the very bottom ?  how long , but oh , how long ?  this bill is not fair .  it is not right .  it is not just .  as a nation and as a people , as a congress , we can do better .  mr. speaker , i appeal to my colleagues to reject this shameful bill .  mr. speaker , i rise in strong opposition to this $ 56 billion tax break , mostly for millionaires in our country .  forty-five percent of this tax break goes to the ultra rich in our country , the top 1 percent average getting $ 32 , 000 apiece in tax breaks out of this bill .  so how do they get the money ?  well , last month , the republicans lectured us on the need to have fiscal discipline .  they had to cut medicaid for the poorest seniors and kids .  they had to cut student loans for children across our country .  they had to cut the food stamp program for kids .  but guess what ?  the amount of money that they were cutting on food stamps and medicaid and health care services and student loans is exactly equal to the amount of money they are giving in tax breaks to millionaires .  in other words , every dollar that when they cut student loans the money comes from kids and it is going over here to millionaires .  and by the way , they are $ 6 billion short , so they are just going to increase the deficit .  why ?  so they can give more tax breaks over here to millionaires .  more tax breaks for millionaires .  cut poor people , cut children , cut medicaid benefits , cut the money that we are going to be giving to seniors , to keep them in nursing homes with alzheimer 's and with parkinson 's disease , just keep cutting it .  give more tax breaks to the millionaires .  something is going to have to be cut .  they cut the poorest .  they cut the most vulnerable .  they cut the youngest .  and where does the money go ?  the money goes to millionaires .  that is what this whole thing is about .  it is one big scam .  you know , there is an old joke .  the priest goes up into the pulpit on sunday and he says , on wednesday , father o'brien will lecture on the evils of gambling in the church hall .  on thursday in the church hall , bingo .  last month the republicans lectured us on the need for them to cut poor people to do something about the deficit .  today , bingo .  tax cuts for the millionaires .  every millionaire is a winner in america under the republicans ' plan .  but the money is all coming from the poorest people in our country and it is going over into the hands of those who need it least .  vote no on this republican atrocity in our country at a time when the poor need it the most and the rich need it the least .  mr. speaker , i got up this morning and here is the washington post 's eminent columnist , david broder .  he begins his story : `` if the house of representatives were a person , it would be blushing these days .  unfortunately , the house is beyond embarrassment. '' now , i used this before , but i wanted to bring it out here again because i think we need to demonstrate to people what is going on .  we have christmastime , and we have socks .  we have poor people 's socks and rich people 's socks .  and the rich people need $ 100 billion in tax cuts .  the republicans , for whatever reason , have decided that it is $ 100 billion yesterday and today , $ 100 billion .  now where do you get the money for that ?  well you have to cut somebody to get it .  you have got to cut something , or else you are going to drive up the deficit .  so the first thing you do is take child care away from 300 , 000 children .  and you put that in the sock , the stocking of the rich .  and then you have social security , ssi benefits for the disabled and the elderly .  and you take $ 700 million away from them and put it into the rich folks ' stocking .  and then you come to child support enforcement .  we do not want children who are in divorced families to get money from those deadbeat dads .  that is not what the republicans say .  they say , let us save $ 21 billion .  we will take it away from the children in divorces and put it in the rich people 's stocking .  and medicaid .  oh , well , they do not need health care .  why , there is $ 10 billion we can take away from poor people 's health care and put it in the rich people 's stocking .  and then there is student loans , $ 14 billion from college students .  we are going to load it on them .  that is the middle class .  that is the lower-class people who are trying to get through on loans .  we take their loans and we say , no , no , no , no , the rich people need it .  and then we have one of the best ones of all : food stamps .  let us take food stamps away from 300 , 000 people ; 300 , 000 people getting food stamps .  oh , these are the rich .  oh , but we have to cut them .  we have to take this away from them .  you can not have food stamps , poor people or ordinary people ; we got to give a tax break to the rich people .  and then finally we have foster children .  way down here in the bottom of the sock .  we have $ 600 million taken away from the program that we took those children out of another family and took responsibility for .  we have taken these children away from a family we have accepted responsibility for in this foster care payment , and we cut it and we give it to the rich folks .  now , you kind of wonder what might be left down here for the poor people .  well , look at that .  a lump of coal .  the poor people better save that lump of coal , because there is nothing in here for their heating bills , the liheap program has not been expanded , and all they are going to have to heat their house is the lump of coal that the republicans put in the poor people 's sock .  merry christmas .  i certainly hope you enjoy all the festivities .  this is a bad bill .  vote `` no . '' mr. speaker , you say one thing for political cover , and then you do another thing for your friends .  that is what we are doing here today .  just last month the speaker said , `` i will tell you that the most mean-spirited thing we can do is leave our children with a debt they can not pay. '' that came from the speaker .  that did not come from our side .  that is the authority of the majority in this house .  well , the words were right .  but , you know , the speaker knows , and i know him well , he went to a college where you know about the bible .  and there is a bible verse that says , by their deeds ye shall know them .  and it is the deeds out here that really make the difference .  now , the difference between what happened yesterday and what is happening in the gentleman from new york 's bill is very simply this .  yesterday you sent a signal .  you sent a press release .  you sent a message out up into the ether knowing , absolutely knowing , it would not pass , because it is not protected in the senate .  you know that .  you know how to run this place .  you can confuse the people , but you can not confuse anybody who knows what is going on in here .  the fact is that the gentleman from new york 's proposal is one that puts it in law and protects it so that we can do something about the amt .  let me say something about the amt .  i bet you most people listening to this do not know what amt stands for .  it stands for alternative minimum tax .  it was put in in 1986 because there were people at the top of the scale who were not paying one single penny of tax .  so it was decided in this body that everybody who benefits from the united states of america should pay some taxes for a civil society .  the failure to index that tax has allowed it to creep down to people making $ 75 , 000 or $ 100 , 000 ; and suddenly , instead of being a few people at the top , it is now 14 or 20 million , depending on how you want to figure .  that was never the intent .  from 1994 to the present , you have allowed it to go from covering 200 , 000 people to 14-plus million people .  you want to use that as an excuse for trying to get rid of the tax structure .  and we know that it was intended and you know it was intended to tax everybody in this country .  the repeal that you tried to put through here under clinton was an attempt to let the top off taxes at all .  you simply wanted to give them an internal tax holiday if they could figure out how to manipulate the tax structure .  the average janitor does not have a way to manipulate the system .  and that is why the gentleman from new york 's ( mr. rangel )  is the only honest way if you want to protect the middle class .  i urge your vote for the alternative minimum tax proposal .  mr. speaker , i just heard the gentleman from wisconsin talk about job creation .  he singled out one month .  22 million jobs created during the clinton years .  22 million .  economic growth has been paltry and everybody knows it .  in addition to which he talked about the deficit -- with a straight face .  they have rolled up the national deficit , $ 2.2 trillion we are in the hole .  on their time this has happened .  let me say this and i think it is very important to point out , mr. speaker , the republican majority now says , as they did yesterday with a straight face , incidentally , well , the democrats did not do anything about the alternative minimum tax when they were in the majority .  in 1994 , and i hope that anybody who is listening to this will write this number down , when the republicans took control of the house of representatives there were approximately 200 , 000 people paying amt , 200 , 000 people .  next year 19.3 million people are kicked into amt .  i would like to think , as the gentleman from new york has indicated , that i have had some consistency on the issue of alternative minimum tax , not only in the committee , but here on the house floor .  we did a big nothing yesterday about amt and everybody knows it .  19.3 million people next year are kicked into amt .  but the house of representatives had time to repeal the estate tax and now to address the dividend and capital gains tax , but they really never have time to do anything about amt .  and the reason they do not have time to do anything about amt is pretty simple , it goes to middle income americans to bear that burden .  so if we do not have time here to do something for the wealthy , we really do not have time to do anything .  we are rich and we are not going to take it anymore .  we watch these numbers as they are presented to us .  the republican party , at one time , stood for anti-communism and balanced budgets .  well , communism is gone and the deficits have really soared , all from a party that preaches fiscal discipline .  they have rolled those deficits up for one reason , after , by the way , robbing the social security trust fund to pay for tax cuts for the wealthiest .  in this institution we hear , well , the social security trust fund is going broke .  it is going broke because they took $ 2 trillion out of it in tax cuts during the next 10 years .  there is no pressure to do what we have to do today .  they are contributing to the national deficit , contributing to the debt , all under the guise of paying for tax cuts for the wealthiest among us .  lastly , i defy anybody here to not acknowledge this static .  the dividend relief bill that we are entertaining here overwhelmingly 53 percent of that benefit goes to people who made more than $ 1 million last year .  that is where we find ourselves now .  i am happy to participate .  mr. speaker , i thank the gentleman from new york ( mr. rangel )  for yielding me time .  the chairman did raise a rhetorical question .  let me give a rhetorical answer .  we are all so desperate here after these 10 years of republican rule to do something about amt we are prepared to vote for any procedure that comes before this institution just to hopefully move it along .  remember , when the republicans took control , 200 , 000 people were paying amt .  next year 19.3 million people will be paying alternative minimum tax .  mr. speaker , i want to thank the gentleman from new york ( mr. rangel )  for offering this motion to recommit today .  the rangel motion to recommit is about two things : truth in budgeting and truth in borrowing .  in almost 14 years now on the ways and means committee , we have spoken of addressing the alternative minimum tax issue .  there has been a lot of talk and not a lot of action .  and you are going to hear in a couple of seconds , well , yesterday , we took up the alternative minimum tax .  what we did yesterday was a procedural maneuver that allowed everybody to cover themselves , but will have very little reality as it addresses alternative minimum tax .  the gentleman from new york 's motion to recommit goes right to the heart of the matter .  you can , in a few minutes , cast a vote on really doing something about alternative minimum tax .  now , the next thing we are going to hear today is this : the democrats were in charge for 40 years and did not address the alternative minimum tax issue .  in 1994 , a couple of 100 , 000 people paid alternative minimum tax in america .  on january 1 , that number kicks up , next year , to 19 million people who will begin to pay alternative minimum tax .  mr. rangel 's proposal addresses this issue , and we pay for it , as i indicated at the outset of my remarks , honestly .  the dividends and capital gains proposal does not even expire until the year 2008 .  and yet , we are doing that instead of doing alternative minimum tax .  now , this congress had time , in the last 5 years , to repeal a series of taxes on the american people , all , by the way , for upper income groups .  we certainly had plenty of time to repeal the estate tax .  we had time to address dividends and capital gains .  but we did not have time to address alternative minimum tax other than with band-aid approaches .  today , you have a chance to do something .  mr. rangel 's proposal lacks complexity .  you can , in the next couple of minutes , choose between fixing amt or extending dividends and capital gains cuts for the wealthiest among us .  and by the way , when we hear the other side say that these cuts to middle income people for dividends and capital gains , the dividend proposal that they have ought to be understood embrace mr. rangel 's proposal .  give him a positive vote on amt .  but most importantly , give those 19.3 million americans next year some much needed relief in alternative minimum tax .  mr. speaker , i thank the distinguished gentleman from new york , our ranking member on the ways and means committee , for yielding me the time .  i thank you and our colleagues on the committee on the democratic side for the excellent work you did in putting forth the democratic alternative today .  you have made an excellent case for your substitute and indictment against what the republicans are doing .  let us talk about what is happening here today .  a few weeks ago , right before thanksgiving , there was a bill on the floor which was the republican budget bill .  so bad was this bill in terms of it not representing the values of our country that the religious community gathered in the rotunda of the capitol of the united states , and they prayed that this congress would make the right decisions and reject the republican budget proposal .  they asked some questions about why we would be giving tax cuts to the wealthiest people in our country while taking food out of the mouths of america 's children .  they said they were going to draw a moral line in the sand because a budget should be a statement of our national values , and what we care about in our country should be reflected in that budget .  today , we are talking about a tax bill which is hand-in-glove part of the reconciliation that the republicans are putting forth .  so embarrassed were they by their own budget and so embarrassed were they by this tax bill that they had to have 3 weeks come between the two of them so that the american people would separate the cause and effect of what they were doing with their budget bill that was poor in its values , poor in its priorities and increasing our deficit because of this tax bill today .  yesterday , they engaged in another sham , which was to pretend that they were giving alternative minimum tax relief for middle-class families in america .  if they cared about middle-class families in america , they would have put that in this bill today which has the full protection as it goes over to the senate .  they know that that bill they passed yesterday has no weight in the senate .  it does not have the protection of the parliamentary process on the senate side , and the same applies to what they did to try to give the illusion that they were helping our men and women in combat so that they would qualify for the low-income tax credit .  if they cared about them , they would have them in the bill today .  this budget , as i said , should be a statement of our national values ; and while we talk about that , let us talk about what those values are .  america has always cherished the value of opportunity , and one place where that is possible for more americans is in the issue of education .  taking these two bills together , we are giving tax cuts to the wealthiest people in america while we are putting a burden on our young people by saying that they will pay $ 5 , 800 more in their student loans so that we can give tax cuts to people making over $ 1 million a year .  that is not a statement of our national values .  that takes from our children their opportunity when we should be expanding it .  fairness .  fairness has always been a cherished american value .  fairness .  we see that during the last 5 years , these 5 years of the bush administration , 7 million more people in our country go to sleep hungry , without adequate food , because they can not afford to buy food .  seven million more people , an increase of 12 percent , and what does this combination of reconciliation in order to give tax cuts to people making over $ 1 million a year , that cuts food stamps and takes many tens of thousand of children off the school lunch program do ?  as the religious community said , how can we as a country give tax cuts to the wealthiest and take food out of the mouths of our children ?  that is not about fairness .  fairness is an american value .  community .  america has always been about community .  alexis de tocqueville said it about the origins of our country , and community means safe neighborhoods , the safety of our people , homeland security and the rest .  we are not putting adequate resources to cops on the beat or anything else in order for us to give these tax cuts at the high end .  that is not about community .  that is totally unfair , and it is diminishing opportunity .  let us take the value of responsibility , personal responsibility , fiscal responsibility , which should be the order of the day in this conversation here .  the combination of their tax bill and their budget bill in reconciliation , which i do not blame them for separating by 3 weeks because it is a total embarrassment with that , they are increasing the deficit .  they are increasing the deficit by $ 20 billion in order to give tax cuts to the wealthiest americans .  they are putting the burden of debt on america 's children , individual debt with their student loans and fiscal debt in terms of our national debt and what our kids will be burdened with .  it is just totally irresponsible and at the same time increases the deficit .  democrats support pay-as-you-go .  no deficit spending .  if something is important to you , figure out how to pay for it , but do not make my children and grandchildren have to pay for it or anybody 's children and grandchildren have to pay for it .  every opportunity i get i want to sing the praises of the clinton administration .  coming out of that administration we were on a trajectory of 5.6 trillion with a tr , dollars in surplus .  in the years of the bush administration , that has been almost fully reversed , over $ 4 trillion in deficit , a swing of around $ 10 trillion , an incredible burden on the future , a tax on our children 's future .  and this is the party of fiscal responsibility ?  republicans have completely abdicated that .  the democrats are the party of fiscal responsibility .  we showed we can do it then .  we can do it again .  we should not today be catering to this appetite for deficits that the republicans can not seem to get over .  it is just absolutely immoral , immoral for us to heap those deficits on our children .  i want to commend my colleagues on the democratic side for what they have done and put into their proposal .  the house democrats are committed to an america that works for everyone , not just the privileged few .  our democratic substitute reflects the values of community by shielding the middle-class americans from the alternative minimum tax in a bill that really counts , not in some suspension of yesterday that has no weight in the conference with the senate ; and it provides tax relief , the democratic alternative does , for our soldiers in combat in the bill .  that really matters as well .  the democratic substitute demonstrates fairness by not adding to the deficit ; and it creates opportunities , spurring economic growth , generating jobs and supporting our small businesses .  our democratic members on the committee have eloquently made an indictment against this budget which is immoral because of the $ 70 billion in tax cuts , mostly for america 's wealthiest .  the republican budget decimates the very initiatives that middle-class americans rely upon to get ahead .  the poor suffer , the rich benefit , the middle class is paying the bill .  the number of people without health insurance has increased 4 years in a row .  people are hungry , a 12 percent increase .  the number of people who do not have health insurance has grown .  they are cutting $ 45 billion in medicaid , a health insurance program that is mostly for america 's poor children , many of them katrina survivors .  alexis de tocqueville talked about community in america .  he wrote back to the french : `` america is great because america is good .  if america ever ceases to be good , '' he concluded , `` america will cease to be great. '' this is a moment that no one in this body wants to hasten .  we all want america to be great and america to be good .  together , we can do better by returning to our fundamental values to maintain america 's goodness by rejecting this immoral tax bill .  mr. speaker , much of the rhetoric coming from the majority in defense of this sinful package is pure fiction .  so let us discuss it in those terms .  you know , charles dickens has written perhaps one of the most famous pieces of fiction discussed at this time of year , the holiday season , a christmas carol .  the lesson of christmas carol , scrooge , this miserly man , very , very well fixed financially that chose not to give to others .  and we know that in the course of this beautiful story the ghosts of christmas past help him reflect upon the paucity of his life , and in the end he has a new spirit of community , helping others , including the cratchett family , with the crippled son , tiny tim .  well , i think that what the majority wants to do is rewrite the christmas carol .  it is probably going to be titled `` a christmas carol ii , revenge of the scrooge. '' and in this christmas carol , scrooge , sitting in his mansion , contemplating his wealth , wants more .  and rather than be challenged as to the paucity of his inclination , we have a republican majority , bought and paid for , that is all too eager to placate the most selfish whim of mr. scrooge .  and so , as the story unfolds , there is more and more for scrooge , and taking , from the very beginning , a low base , less and less for mr. cratchett who loses his job when it is outsourced overseas , tries to find something at minimum wage which has not been raised since 1997 , and tiny tim , tiny tim is left out all together .  let us ask ourselves some basic questions about this .  after passing a $ 31 billion tax reduction yesterday out of this house , do we really want to add an additional $ 56 billion without having it paid for ?  look at this .  this shows that we are north of $ 8 trillion in accumulated debt , that the average share is $ 27 , 000 of debt per american .  you know , another christmas story talks about naughty children getting a lump of coal in their stocking .  well , this majority gives every child $ 27 , 000 of debt , debt that will fall on their shoulders when the baby boomers retire with this debt woefully unpaid .  the second question , do we need it ?  you know about half of this package today , for all the talk about how desperately it is needed , does not take effect until 2009 and 2010 .  existing tax code makes the very provision that they are talking about in 2006 , in 2007 and in 2008 .  it is there for the next 3 years .  they are talking about driving us deeper in debt today , cutting programs that help people today so that we can deal with something that happens in 2009 and 2010 .  next question .  is it fair ?  well , in looking at who gets what under this bill , you know , most of the people in this country , 55 percent , earn less than $ 40 , 000 .  they will come out on average $ 7 , $ 7 per under this dividend and tax cut provision .  one out of 500 , one out of 500 taxpayers , the most affluent of the 500 , one out of 500 get nearly half of this bill .  and they will average , per taxpayer , more than $ 30 , 000 back .  so in this christmas season , we are hammering on programs that help those who need help .  we are passing a tax package that gives nothing , virtually , to most under this capital gains dividend tax cut provision , and we are absolutely loading it up for the wealthiest few in this country .  this is christmas carol ii .  this is revenge of the scrooge .  this is totally bad policy , and it must be stopped .  i urge a no vote on this rule .  mr. speaker , i thank the gentleman for yielding .  the preceding speaker on the republican side said we have got to pass this , we have got to continue the pro-growth policies .  she was talking specifically as she referenced capital gains and dividends .  well , the fact is the very tax cuts that she is talking about remain in place .  they are in existing law for 2006 , for 2007 , for 2008 .  doing nothing keeps the very provisions she was hyperventilating about just a moment ago .  but what is the matter then ?  if we got them and we got them through 2008 , why not kick them out through 2009 and 2010 ?  this is the reason .  this is the national debt .  this fall it went north of $ 8 trillion .  i brought this chart to illustrate what a huge burden we are racking up for our children .  this averages out to $ 27 , 000 of debt per person .  and in this environment , the majority in bringing this bill to the floor today after yesterday 's vote will be passing $ 87 billion in additional tax cuts that are not paid for .  alan greenspan has got some words of caution on this .  he was quoted in november saying , we should not be cutting taxes by borrowing .  well , when they do not pay for their tax cuts , they are basically borrowing , leaving the debt to our children to offset the funding of these tax cuts , just what greenspan warns against .  earlier in the month of december , just last week , he says , an expected deficit casts an ever larger shadow over the growth of living standards .  in the end , the consequences for the u.s. economy could be severe .  the dirty little secret in this budget reconciliation plan is that it increases borrowing authority for this country nearly $ 1 trillion , from 750 to $ 780 billion of additional debt they will be authorizing to fund the tax cuts that they want to commence .  as they talk about growth , do n't believe it .  they would not have to increase the borrowing limit to this country if this all worked .  they are adding to the debt to pass tax cuts disproportionately for the wealthiest .  mr. speaker , the gentleman picked a heck of a time to lose his voice here now .  i am terribly sorry .  i will take it up then when we have the opportunity .  mr. speaker , i do not want to get technical about this .  i just want to set the record straight , and that is that we all agree that the alternative minimum tax is an unfair tax on people because it was not planned by the ways and means committee and by the congress .  so , of course , we thought yesterday and we think today that these people , who through inflation were thrown into this category , should be protected .  and that is why we were so disappointed that the republicans , by party line , rejected the democrats when we were doing the bill in the committee from not being included in the reconciliation bill .  now , we all know that the bill that we passed yesterday on the suspension calendar is not protected like this $ 56 billion is protected today .  as a matter of fact , people should know that it may appear to be a technicality , but the only way that this alternative minimum release bill that we passed yesterday in the suspension calendar is that not one of the 100 senators over there objects .  we need the consent of every senator to provide the amt bill with protection .  that is not so .  if the republicans were so concerned about these people who got caught into this trap in getting the alternative minimum tax treatment , it would be placed in the reconciliation bill .  so i do not think you ought to bring up things when the facts are against you .  it is true that you have decided that those people who want relief on capital gains taxes and corporate dividends , even though they do not get hit until 2009 , that you are prepared to have the people who get by the amt this year or next year , rather , in their tax burden to get hit at the expense of those people that are much richer and much smaller in number .  so i really think that in this holiday season , we are doing enough damage without distorting the truth .  you have had your priorities in terms of protecting the amt people or protecting the group that is going to be allegedly protected today , even though they do not need any , not today , not next year , and not the year after .  so those are the facts , and i thank the gentlewoman from new york for affording us the opportunity to at least , in this holiday season , whether we like the bill or not , let truth prevail .  mr. speaker , i welcome the opportunity to join with the republicans to send this holiday message to millions of americans that will be affected by this bill , especially to the fraction of 1 percent that would be the beneficiaries of a substantial reduction in capital gains and corporate dividends .  it is true , while this only represents 20 to 25 percent of the bill , it should be made abundantly clear that these benefits would not be effective until sometime in 2009 and 2010 .  now , i am here on the floor to try to get people to understand that this tax cut for the rich is really to grow the economy , and i want to make it clear to those people who have lost their jobs and not counted among the unemployed , those that are looking at automobile plants closing and airlines going bankrupt , that basically the economy is good , and it is good because the president told us so .  and if they do not think that we are moving forward fast enough , then they ought to really listen to the president as he shares with us the great economic recovery that has happened in iraq , and if they are just a little patient , things will get better here in the united states .  now , we all know that whenever we give this type of tax cut that there is going to be a tremendous revenue loss , and in the last few days , that revenue loss has been something like $ 100 billion .  but fear not , because we are not charging all of this to the deficit .  it is true that as the deficit increases more than history ever expected under this administration , that soon 40 percent of the tax revenues that we get will be going just to pay the interest on this outstanding debt , and that is why our republican friends believe that we just can not expand the deficit , that we have to cut spending .  now , they have looked all over to the to decide where to do the cutting .  and in this holiday season , i just want to join them in letting people know where these cuts are going to take place .  but i do not want people to worry about it because the president says that the economy is booming and the republicans here say that the tax cuts for the rich is for economic growth .  so how can one be against that formula ?  first of all , if one is a mother trying to raise her children and she got support from the local and state government to go after the father , or whatever the case may be , to get that money to take care of her and her family , not to worry , that this is going to be cut and she will not be able to get the money because under this bill , whether people know it or not , it is for economic growth .  say you are considering using food stamps for your christmas meal .  you find out that the food stamps are going to be cut .  not to worry , because soon there will be economic growth .  maybe you are just a student trying to get a student loan , and you really think that you should get some help from your government because , after all , we want you to be productive and make a contribution to society .  not to worry , these tax cuts are for economic growth .  what i do not understand , with all of the opportunity that we have had to take care of economic growth , why do we wait until this time of the season and target the least among us in order to do the budget cuts ?  it is not as though we do not have $ 2 or $ 3 billion in terms of expenses in iraq , which if you did not know lately , you should know that victory is in sight and we are winning that too .  so we do not want you to lose confidence in all of government .  if you find out that this bill rewards the richest of the people in the united states whose income is not going to be adversely affected , or their tax is adversely affected for 3 or 4 years , but we have to do something to target the poor today , then you have to have some trust in the republicans , because they say we have got to have victory in war , we have got to grow the economy , and this is the best thing that ever happened to you .  now , the democrats are not just saying vote `` no. '' we will have an opportunity for members to vote `` yes. '' and unlike the republicans , we thought enough of the alternative minimum tax to include it in reconciliation .  what does that mean ?  it means it is protected when it gets over to the other side , so we did not have to depend on 100 senators sitting down and not objecting .  it is in our bill .  all of the good things that can come out of a bill , we have included , including relief for those people that have state taxes .  and so , my friends in this holiday season , you may find it very difficult if you are unemployed , if you are concerned about the economy , or the cuts that we have , including medicaid , which is only a $ 10 billion cut , but you must trust the majority and the republicans in this house , because they , like the president of the united states , say the economy is booming .  we are going to have victory in the middle east , and this is going to make it easier for you , if not today , if not tomorrow , then sometime in the future .  mr. speaker , i reserve the balance of my time .  mr. speaker , i yield myself such time as i may consume .  mr. speaker , i would just like to say briefly , if the chairman of the ways and means committee is saying that the alternative minimum tax is in the other body 's bill , then he must be saying that the tax cuts that we are talking about today are not in the other body 's bill .  so it is 3-card molly .  the house republicans passed both of them , one on the suspension calendar that is not protected here , but is protected in the other body ; and this bill which provides for relief for the taxes for corporate dividends and capital gains , which is protected in our bill , but is not in their bill .  and so what we are doing is shooting dice to see which one will prevail .  mr. speaker , i would like to ask the gentleman just one question on my time .  these very important tax cuts or extension of tax cuts you are talking about , could you share with me as simply as possible as to when they expire , what year ?  the tax cut that we are talking about is the $ 20 billion in capital gains and corporate dividends .  does that not expire in 2009 ?  do n't get rattled .  it is just a simple question .  because there seems to be some degree of urgency in this and unless it is a projected gift , then these things do n't expire this year or next year .  please .  i think the gentleman has answered the question .  there is no urgency in this .  you just want to give a projected christmas gift to the very wealthy .  so i need some help on this .  if i ca n't get answers from you , i will get someone that can give answers .  mr. speaker , i yield myself such time as i may consume .  i am so glad to hear my friend from florida talk about the economic growth that we can expect by making certain that the capital gains tax cut and the corporate dividend tax cut do not expire .  what bewilders most people is that this does not expire until 2008 .  nobody would be adversely affected until 2009 , and unless the gentleman does not believe he will be in the majority in the next few years , i do not see why he would have to say that people who are out of work , who are looking for work , who have lost their pension should believe that this tax cut that will continue to 2009 is going to help them .  but maybe the gentleman from mississippi , who understands that not many of his constituents are going to understand this , might clarify some of the problems we have .  mr. speaker , i had an old law professor , and he once told me , if you do n't have the facts going for you , raise your voice .  i never understood it , but i do now .  mr. speaker , i reserve the balance of my time , having only one speaker remaining , until the other side reaches that point .  mr. speaker , i continue to reserve the balance of my time .  mr. speaker , i yield myself the balance of my time .  mr. speaker , we have now come to the conclusion of this debate , and i want my colleagues to know that if you are looking for some of the things that are worthwhile that are in the majority 's bill , we have an opportunity in the substitute to take care of it .  but if you really believe this is the time for america to give a $ 20 billion tax cut to these people who will not be affected until 2009 , why would they want to give this incentive to less than 5 percent , 1 percent of the richest people that we have in our country , and do it in this christmas season ?  so you have an alternative .  you can take care of the wealthy in years ahead , since this does not expire this year , or you can do what they have not done and that is to take care of those people who find themselves subjected to an alternative minimum tax only because the majority has not seen fit to give them relief in a decade .  and so as this number has increased , instead of taking care of them in the bill that is before us , they have decided to just send a message over there to tell the senate if you would like , by unanimous consent , and if no one objects , then you can take care of the amt problem .  we do not do this as democrats .  we take care of it up front .  we take care of the military , we take care of those people from hurricane katrina , and we take care of the job credits that are important .  we take care of those things that are important in our substitute .  in this holiday season , we really do not believe that you ought to take $ 10 billion out of health care for the poorest people in this country .  we do not believe that you should , in order to pay for this bill , that you should cut food stamps .  we do not believe that students that have been getting help from this great government of ours should be adversely affected to pay for this tax cut .  so we ask you to really consider in this holiday season these families that have kids in foster care , these families that are having their benefits not being received because we are letting them down .  you just weigh this and ask , is there any equity involved in this ?  if you want to give these tax cuts , why do you not wait until the thing expires ?  perhaps we will have a new congress .  perhaps there will be new equity .  perhaps it can be discussed .  perhaps the committee members , democrats and republicans , would come together and find out not what is just good for the wealthy , but what is good for the strength of this great nation of ours .  one of the greatest threats to our national security is poverty .  one of the greatest threats to our national security is the inability to get an education .  the people who died in hurricane katrina did not die because of their color .  the hurricane was color blind .  but they died because they were poor .  why can we not invest and make certain that all americans , black and white , republicans and democrats , can this holiday season say congress did the right thing and not the political thing ?  mr. speaker , i yield myself such time as i may consume .  mr. speaker , we have a democrat substitute that really is not in sharp conflict with the republican bill .  many things we tried and include and did suggest in the brief time we had to work on this bill .  basically , what we have done , though , is to pay more attention to the middle class that really are the victims of the alternative minimum tax than we pay attention to the richest of america who do not find their republican tax cuts being threatened until 2009 .  why did we do this ?  is it merely a technicality ?  it is a very important difference .  yes , we voted on the suspension calendar to provide relief for these people , not as much as we do in our substitute ; but people have to understand the suspension calendar in the house is not protected under the other body 's rules .  they protected those people that they wanted to protect , those enjoying capital gains and will continue to enjoy capital gains and corporate dividend tax cuts until 2009 .  why would they not include right in this bill , that would be protected on the other side , i do not know their political reasons .  but i do know this : what we refuse to do is to give tax cuts that would extend the deficit .  we do not do that to generations that follow .  nor do we hit the poor who are sick or the kids that want to go to school or the foster kids or those kids that are dependent on money from their fathers who have abandoned their mothers .  we do not do it in this season , nor do we do it anytime , because there is a difference in what we believe in .  i am suggesting this : if members support the substitute , you are supporting deductions for state and local taxes , real estate taxes , the deduction for college tuition , the research credit they talk about that we agree is so important , the work opportunity tax credit , tax incentives for the district of columbia and for indian reservations , 15-year depreciation period for leasehold improvements and restaurant improvements , qualified zone academic bonds , the brownfields cleanups , and several other important , but minor , provisions .  what i am suggesting is that the major decision of those of you who will have to vote is whether or not you want to give $ 20 billion of tax relief to people who would not need it until 2009 at the expense not only of the deficit but at the expense of the poorest among us ; or whether you want to take the good things that we could find in this bill , not increase the deficit and not cut the programs for the poor , and have a democratic substitute that makes sense to the american people and , hopefully , to the house of representatives .  mr. speaker , i reserve the balance of my time .  there must be some chart around to show how many people were pushed into poverty during that same period of time and our wages have been reduced , but we have it in the back if any of our members would like to use it .  mr. speaker , i yield myself such time as i may consume .  i have all the respect for the majority leader , and it is true that he knows some of these people that have gone from upper middle income to become higher-income people , and there are other people in this country that have seen middle-income people slip into the rolls of poverty .  so in order to have a more well-balanced bill , we concentrated on the middle class by putting the alternative minimum tax into this bill to make certain that when it gets to the body , it is protected and we do not have to depend on just one of those people over there rejecting it for this higher tax cut , which , of course , does not adversely affect anybody , as the majority leader said , until 2009 .  mr. speaker , i agree with my distinguished friend from new york ( mr. reynolds )  that the republicans did send a signal to protect the alternative minimum tax .  we want to do a lot more .  mr. speaker , i reserve the balance of my time .  parliamentary inquiry .  does the gentleman from california ?  a parliamentary inquiry is no longer the speaker 's responsibility ?  well , i just wanted to know how many closing speakers they had .  mr. speaker , on that i demand the yeas and nays .  i am , mr. speaker .  well , mr. speaker , you can take away our right to go to conference , our right to amend bills , but one thing you can not take away is our right to vote .  we have a game called 3 card molly in new york .  you never know which one is under the shell .  so they have an opportunity to say that they want to help the wealthiest americans , but they like to give a whole lot of talk to those people who , through no fault of their own , except the ineptness and the inability of the republicans to correct it , they got caught in the alternative minimum tax .  now , they will scream out that they took care of it on the suspension bill .  well , you do not have to be a parliamentarian to know when you send something to that other side and put it on the suspension calendar , you had better send a prayer over with it because any one guy can stand up and say i object .  but when you cover it because you believe in it and put it in the reconciliation bill , it means that is what you really want to do .  at the end of the day , when we vote , all we are saying is , we ask the conferees , whenever they might meet , that they are instructed by this house to take care of those who really deserve the tax privilege the most .  take care of those who were not really thrown into this thing because of increased income , but were thrown into the alternative minimum tax that was not supposed to capture them , but they got there because of inflation .  in 3 card molly , you do not know what is going to happen .  but we will know at the end of this vote something that john lewis knows that they said in the civil rights movement , and that is , which side are you on ?  what a great opportunity .  take away everything you want .  take away our votes , our opportunity to express ourselves , give us rules that you like to give us .  but , on this vote , at the end of the day , people might ask how did you treat the alternative minimum tax ?  some people might say , well , it did come up in the house .  it was not important enough to put in the reconciliation bill and it was not important enough to allow a lot of debate .  we put it on the suspension calendar because it was not paid for and we did not think it would be controversial .  and so , with all of the debate , what is going to happen mr. speaker , on that , i demand the yeas and nays .  mr. speaker , i rise today in strong opposition to h.r. 4297 , the tax reconciliation bill .  cutting taxes for the super rich , and ignoring the needs of the poor and middle class , as this bill does , is a dangerous deviation from fiscal and moral responsibility .  as with every american , i too would like to see my taxes cut .  therefore my opposition to this bill does not stem from a deep-seated hostility toward the concept of tax cuts .  rather , my opposition is a plain and simple recognition that these proposed tax cuts are the wrong kind of cuts at precisely the wrong time .  why are they wrong kind of tax cuts ?  because they primarily benefit the super rich with little tax relief to middle class and poor americans who need tax relief the most .  why do they come at the wrong time ?  because today our federal government is unable to meet the most essential needs of the majority of americans .  for example , 45 million americans are without health insurance , too many american families can not afford to send their children to college , and our american communities continue to be vulnerable to terrorist attacks here at home due to the under-funding of many essential homeland security programs .  instead of investing in american families , this bill condones massive cuts to essential health , education , and programs designed to help women and children .  and instead of fully funding programs such as those designed to support our emergency first responders in the case of a terrorist attack , we are using that money to pay for tax cuts for the super rich .  add to this reality a costly war in iraq , unprecedented spending for hurricane relief in the gulf , and the escalating budget deficit , and it is very clear that now is the wrong time for these kinds of cut taxes .  mr. speaker , the democrats have a fair and responsible solution .  it is fair because , instead of cutting taxes for the super rich , our substitute bill is designed to put hardworking middle-class americans first in line for tax relief .  for example , our substitute bill protects the majority of american families who will negatively be affected by the alternative minimum tax .  it is responsible because it avoids further reckless spending by eliminating the extension of capital gains and dividend tax cuts that will add to the enormous deficit that will have to be paid by future generations .  as a grandmother myself , i believe it is morally reprehensible to leave my grandchildren to bear the burden of debt-relief because we spent our money on more tax cuts for the wealthy today .  to set the right course for future generations , we must make it our priority to improve the quality of life for all americans ; not just the lives of the privileged few .  this tax-cut bill before us is needless , reckless spending and should be rejected .  mr. speaker , i have one remaining speaker .  may i inquire if my colleague is about ready to close ?  mr. speaker , i yield myself the balance of my time .  i would like to urge a `` no '' vote on the rule , a `` no '' vote on the bill , and say to every member of the house of representatives if they want the amt fix protected , the only way in the world they can do it today is to vote for the democrat substitute .  mr. speaker , over the last few days we have seen a flurry of tax cuts on the house floor : three yesterday , another one , a big one , today .  and over the last 6 months , four other bills have been enacted that have tax cuts and concessions built into them , for example , the energy policy act .  by breaking all of those tax cuts into small pieces and by burying them in other bills , not tax bills , the audit trail very quickly becomes hard to follow .  it is hard to see the forest for the trees .  hard to see in the aggregate how all of these different tax cuts add up .  so let us look at the revenue scorecard over the last 6 months , bearing in mind that every delay of revenues cut is a dollar added to the deficit .  first of all , the highway bill : $ 500 million .  the energy policy act : $ 6.9 billion over 5 years .  the katrina emergency tax relief act : $ 6.1 billion over 5 years .  the stealth tax relief act , the 1-year extension , or patch , to the amt adopted yesterday : $ 31.2 billion .  today 's bill : $ 56.1 billion .  the bill we adopted yesterday , a miscellany of small tax cuts , but it adds up to $ 153 million .  and finally the gulf opportunity zone tax act which was passed yesterday : $ 7.1 billion .  the total amount of all of these tax cuts comes to $ 108 billion .  so if you pass this bill today , the total impact that you will have taken with today 's vote and recent votes comes to 108 .  but wait , it is not over yet .  because there is a provision in this bill , a provision in our substitute , a provision in yesterday 's bill that indicates something has got to be done about the alternative minimum tax .  we are going to have to fix the alternative minimum tax .  if you fix it for 5 years , not 1 , the aggregate effect of this fix , of all of the other tax cuts along with it , comes to $ 301 billion over 5 years .  that is the sum total that these tax cuts will add to the deficit , $ 301 billion if you fix the amt next year and the following years the same way we are fixing it this year .  so the net effect on the deficit is $ 301 billion in all political reality .  so every member here who is in earnest about the deficit should be on notice .  you have a choice : you can vote for the underlying bill and add $ 301 billion to the deficit over the next 5 years , or you can vote for this bill and provide middle-income tax relief and not add a dime to the deficit .  here , in effect , is what your choice is .  we stand at a crossroads today that cbo has depicted as follows on this particular chart .  you can take this path here with $ 319 billion , or you can take this path here , and by 2015 , we can be nearly out of deficit .  on the other hand , you can take the path that this bill would take , and you will be $ 640 billion in deficit in 10 years .  the democratic substitute is morally and fiscally far and away the better choice , particularly if you want to balance the budget and eradicate the deficit .  mr. speaker , i rise today in strong opposition to h.r. 4297 , yet another tax break for the richest among us at the expense of those who have the least .  the republicans want to cut taxes by $ 94.5 billion .  how do they pay for these cuts ?  before thanksgiving they voted to cut $ 50 billion from programs that help the poorest americans .  the conclusion is obvious : they are paying for the tax cuts for wealthy americans by cutting programs for working americans .  under the tax break package presented today , a family of four surviving on $ 30 , 000 a year will get an average of $ 50 extra in their tax return next april .  meanwhile , a millionaire will gain an extra $ 51 , 000 .  lets just see what kind of lifestyle enhancement these tax cuts can buy : the $ 30 , 000 working family of four can use the extra $ 4.16 they receive each month to buy any one of the following : 1.75 gallons of gas ; a half-pound of cheese ; one gallon of orange juice ; two loaves of white bread ; three grapefruits ; or for those indebted to the nra , 6 bullets for a .44 magnum .  people making over $ 1 million get a tax break of $ 4 , 250 a month , that they could use to purchase one of the following : leases on four bmw 750i sedans ; 17 ipod nano 's ; a 50 inch flat screen plasma tv ; a five karat diamond tennis bracelet ; or a 10-day european cruise .  or , if they wanted to , they could pay the monthly health insurance premiums for four families .  if the republicans want to cut taxes , they should pay for it .  we could save billions by pulling our troops out of iraq .  that could pay for katrina relief and stop cuts to important programs for working families .  instead of handing out holiday tax breaks to rich republican campaign donors , we should be rolling back bush 's tax breaks for millionaires to better fund important programs like medicaid and student loans .  also , republicans need to drop the `` fiscal conservative '' moniker .  these tax breaks combined with last month 's cuts on programs for those in need will rack up $ 44 billion in new debt .  the fiscal disciplines of the republican party apparently means we drive our nation into debt and send the bill to our children and grandchildren .  the numbers do n't lie .  the republican priority is tax breaks for the rich , nothing more .  they will cut programs for the poor and increase the deficit by billions of dollars to get their way .  i urge all my colleagues to stop this insane fiscal policy by voting `` no '' on this bill .  mr. speaker , on that i demand the yeas and nays .  mr. speaker , i thank the gentleman for yielding me time .  last night , about 12 , 000 mississippians went to bed in somebody else 's house or in their carport or in their car or in their tent .  they are waiting on a fema trailer .  i did not promise them a fema trailer .  the president of the united states did .  he has not fulfilled that promise yet .  it is over 102 days past the storm .  as we speak , there are tens of thousands of mississippians , average joes , who are about to lose their house .  see , they lived outside the flood plain .  they had wind insurance , and a storm of magnitude that has not occurred in 300 years either destroyed or flooded their homes .  now they have no home .  they have a mortgage to pay , and their insurance company , which contributes heavily to the folks over there , says you are not getting a dime because that was water and not wind , but they will use any excuse they can .  i have introduced legislation to try to help those folks , and it is expensive .  it is going to cost about $ 5 billion to help those folks hang on to their homes and hang on to their mortgage ; and in 102 days we have not had a hearing or a vote on it .  but if you are a member of the political contributor class , the guys who write the big checks to the rnc , guys who write a big check to a congressman here , senator there , we have got a vote on your tax cut that does not even expire for 3 years .  you want to know what this house 's priorities are ?  it is not with the average joes .  it is with the political contributor class .  you call them what you want .  you can call them rich , but we all know it comes down to who writes the checks .  by the way , the guy on coleman avenue whose house washed away , he does not write big checks .  so maybe that is why you do not listen to him .  it has been 102 days , and you have done nothing .  there is no talk of doing anything .  there are 12 , 000 mississippians waiting on a fema trailer .  so what do you bring to the floor ?  is it hurricane relief ?  is it something to help the average joes ?  it is a tax break for the wealthiest 1 percent of america who , by the way , write the big checks to the political parties .  tell me your priorities are not screwed up , because i am going to tell you they are .  mr. speaker , i want to remind the gentleman that when your house is washed away , your job is washed away .  you are not looking for a tax break .  you are looking for your fellow americans to help you out while your kids are serving in the mississippi national guard over in iraq .  you have not done that for 102 days .  i thank the gentleman for yielding .  mr. speaker , just 2 weeks ago , the majority came down to the floor and cut $ 50 billion from services for middle-class workers , students , hungry children , farmers , and single moms .  today , they are back with part two , pushing almost $ 60 billion in tax breaks for americans who need help the least .  sadly , they are trying to peddle this as deficit reduction .  mr. speaker , you can not spend $ 10 billion more than you cut and call it deficit reduction .  our constituents know that these numbers do not add up , and they also know that these priorities do not add up .  this bill grows the deficit , and it turns a blind eye to the tax increase the middle class will face in just another 23 days .  that is when the relief for the alternative minimum tax , or the amt , expires .  if amt expires , 16 million new families will start paying this tax next year .  that is a tax increase .  this is an issue that hits home for my constituents .  california is hit harder by amt than any other state in the country .  almost a quarter of the revenues that come from the treasury from amt come directly from california .  if amt relief is not extended , that number will increase .  this legislation extends tax cuts that are not even close to expiring , cuts that are on the books for another 3 years .  it changes more than 25 different tax provisions ; but somehow , our friends in the majority could not find room for amt relief : 16 million new families impacted , 23 days until expiration , zero regard for the middle class .  i urge my colleagues to vote against this irresponsible legislation and support the rangel substitute .  the substitute extends immediately-expiring tax provisions , and it protects our middle-class families from amt .  mr. speaker , as we debate this bill , we must remember it is only part of a brew based on the republican leadership 's budget recipe .  just before thanksgiving , they twisted enough arms to put the first ingredients into the mixing bowl by passing a bill to cut more than $ 50 billion over five years from medicaid , student loans , and many other programs of great importance to millions of americans .  today , they want to continue by adding some good things -- including extensions of well-targeted tax cuts like the research and development tax credit and small business expensing tainted by some unwholesome provisions , especially the premature extension of preferential rates for dividends and capital gains .  the result , just in time for holiday parties , will be a full-bodied one-two punch .  and while some may find it intoxicating , it will have a nasty aftertaste for many , will leave everyone with a bad budgetary headache -- because it will actually increase the deficit -- and will stick future generations with paying the tab .  so , mr. speaker , count me out .  i thought the original recipe was wrong .  i did not vote for the first part of the mixture .  and i will not vote for this bill .  that does n't mean i am opposed to tax cuts .  as i said , there are good things in this bill , and i support them .  that 's why i voted for the substitute .  the substitute would have exempted every family making less than $ 200 , 000 from the alternative minimum tax -- something that should be a priority but that is not included in the bill before us .  adoption of the motion to recommit would have had the same effect .  the substitute also included $ 42 billion in tax cuts over five years targeted to spur economic growth by extending the most pressing tax provisions that are now scheduled to expire this year .  however , unlike this bill , the substitute did not include extension of things that will not expire this year -- including the preferential rates for dividends and capital gains -- or the changes to international tax rules .  unfortunately , the republican leadership was not willing to follow that more reasonable approach , and is insisting on sticking with their own recipe .  but the senate has passed a quite different tax measure , and differences between that bill and this one will have to be resolved in conference .  so , while i can not support this bill i am hopeful that the conferees will insist on a new and better mixture that will deserve support .  mr. speaker , today we are presented with act ii of the republican majority 's ongoing and tragically misguided reconciliation saga .  in act i , we learned who the majority felt most deserved to bear the brunt of their spending cuts : poor citizens who rely on medicaid , hungry people who turn to food stamps and families trying to afford college .  now in act ii we are learning where they propose that money go : for tax breaks , that are targeted primarily to benefit the top 1 % of the wealthiest americans .  and what is the net result ?  an even bigger deficit that will have to be paid for by our children .  let me be clear : in a properly prioritized budget , i believe there is room for targeted , fiscally responsible tax relief .  and that 's precisely the kind of tax relief democrats are offering in our substitute today .  the democratic alternative extends all of the tax cuts set to expire next year -- including such items as the deduction for college tuition expenses , incentives for brownfields cleanup and the 15-year depreciation schedule for certain small business expenses .  moreover , unlike the republican package , democrats provide guaranteed alternative minimum tax relief -- so that 16 million middle-class taxpayers wo n't be unfairly ensnared by the amt .  finally , and importantly , the democratic substitute is completely paid for -- and wo n't add a dime to the federal deficit .  by contrast , when considered in its entirety , the republican reconciliation package will actually increase the deficit -- at a time when the nation 's debt is already running over $ 8 trillion .  additionally , when faced with the choice of whether to use the reconciliation process to protect amt relief for middle-class taxpayers or tax breaks for the wealthiest investors , the republicans chose to leave amt relief unprotected while extending tax -breaks on capital gains and dividends that do n't even expire until 2008 -- tax breaks over half of whose benefits flow to those who made over $ 1 million last year .  mr. speaker , during a time of war , in the aftermath of a catastrophic hurricane , with 45 million americans lacking health insurance and skyrocketing home heating costs projected this winter , this majority is proposing to take from those with the least , give to those with the most -- and tell our children they will have to pay for it all later .  mr. speaker , we can do better .  in fact , i would submit that -- in this season above all seasons -- we are required to do better .  i urge my colleagues to reject this bill and support the fiscally responsible democratic substitute .  mr. speaker , i rise to express my opposition to the irresponsible tax reconciliation bill the house passed earlier today .  i strongly support tax relief , but i oppose this bill because it does not target tax relief to middle class families , because it is paid for by slashing health care and education programs and because it will needlessly increase our national debt .  mr. speaker , this tax bill is the second half of a misguided budget reconciliation package that raids the wallets of my western new york constituents and gives their money to those making over a million dollars .  the first half of the budget reconciliation occurred last month , when the majority passed a series of devastating spending cuts to health and education programs in order to free up funding for these tax cuts .  that means that these tax cuts are paid for by cutting $ 11 billion from medicaid at a time when over 45 million americans are without health insurance .  they are paid for by throwing 300 , 000 people off food stamps when hunger in this country is on the rise .  they are paid for by slashing $ 14 billion from student loan programs when the cost of college tuition is skyrocketing .  and they are paid for by cutting child support enforcement and foster care programs .  mr. speaker , the tax reconciliation bill is paid for out of the pockets of the middle class , yet working families receive little of its benefits .  if this bill were a serious attempt to provide real tax relief to the middle class it would include an extension of the alternative minimum tax ( amt ) fix .  the amt fix is set to expire at the end of the year , and without an extension taxes will increase on the 17 million middle class families who will be snared by the amt .  yet this legislation does not include amt relief .  instead , the centerpiece of this bill is a reduction of tax rates for capital gains and corporate dividends .  mr. speaker , taxing investment income at a lower rate than earned income is rewarding wealth , not work .  a fairer bill would have reduced taxes on the paychecks of the middle class working families who most need and deserve it .  mr. speaker , not only does this reconciliation package slash programs for working families and fail to target tax relief at the middle class , but it does nothing at all to reduce the federal budget deficit or the national debt .  in fact , this package increases the deficit because it reduces spending by $ 50 billion and cuts taxes by $ 56 billion .  in other words , this so-called `` deficit reduction '' package actually increases the deficit to the tune of $ 6 billion !  maybe this fiscal approach explains why the chairman of the president 's own commission on tax reform said recently that he was not worried by tax policies that increase the national debt because we can always borrow some more from china .  but i refuse to pass this bill and saddle the elementary school children in jamestown and buffalo with that debt .  mr. speaker , i support tax cuts .  i supported the amt stand-alone bill because the bulk of that relief goes to middle class families , and i will continue to support tax cuts for working americans .  i am not philosophically opposed to tax cuts for upper income americans .  but there is a proper time for everything , and at this juncture -- when we are running record budget deficits , when we are funding our troops in iraq , and when we are incurring huge costs to recover from hurricane katrina -- at this juncture , we can not cut taxes to the rich and increase the burden on the middle class .  buffalo wo n't hear it and neither will i . mr. speaker , as we begin debate on additional tax cuts -- h.r. 4297 -- we must consider them in the larger context of the challenges this nation is facing and the impact these tax cuts will have , on our ability to face these challenges as well as future challenges .  our decisions must always prioritize protecting the future of this nation for our children and their children .  over the thanksgiving recess , i participated in a program in my district that sought to increase early literacy by incorporating reading into doctors ' visits .  during my visit , i read to these children -- who are about my granddaughter anna 's age -- about `` clifford the big red dog. '' it is truly a wonderful program , and as i recall the joy and animation on each child 's face with every turn of the page , i am reminded just how important the decisions we make today are ... ..  because we are merely stewards of this nation for them -- and we must act as such .  are we being wise stewards in choosing to pass another tax cut -- on top of the nearly $ 2 trillion in cuts we have already passed ?  congress has already transformed a $ 5.6 trillion surplus into a more than $ 3 trillion debt .  yet , we are still financing the war in iraq and the reconstruction from the war in afghanistan .  regardless of your view on our nation 's military policy over the past five years -- we must pay for the wars and their subsequent cleanup , yet to date they have been financed by deficit spending .  and we have only just begun the rebuilding efforts in new orleans , gulfport and other gulf coast cities struck by hurricane katrina .  which brings us back to the legislation we are considering today .  there are many positive provisions in this bill .  they would create an even better future for our children and grandchildren , like my granddaughter anna -- particularly the provision to strengthen and extend the research and development tax credit .  i am a strong supporter of this investment .  unfortunately , the centerpiece of this bill -- the dividends and capital gains tax cut extensions -- is unnecessary at this time .  not only do these cuts not expire until 2008 , they primarily help the same individuals who have already benefited lavishly from the previous rounds of tax cuts .  so we are at war , we are in debt and yet again we are cutting taxes without fully paying for it .  the path we are beginning to turn down , as begun by this budget package , may ultimately include tax cuts that will far outstrip the some $ 50 billion worth of unwise spending cuts .  just the tax cuts in this bill will add at least $ 6 billion to the deficit and it seems more may be added outside this reconciliation process .  sadly , it seems the only americans asked to sacrifice are the brave men and women in uniform fighting in the middle east and our children and grandchildren , like my anna , who will bear the burden of our massive debt .  this defies historical precedent and common sense .  we do , however , have an opportunity to make a decision that will return us to the path of fiscal responsibility .  ranking member rangel has offered a pragmatic and effective substitute bill and i am glad today 's rule will allow a vote on it .  this alternative will extend the tax cuts that expire at the end ofthe year and provide a muchneeded amt patch .  and the democratic alternative will be paid for by taking back a small portion of the tax cuts that benefit families earning more than $ 500 , 000 .  simply , we extend only what is necessary and we pay for it -- anna and other future generations deserve no less .  i urge my colleagues to embrace the principle of shared sacrifice and reject this tax reconciliation package in favor of the responsible democratic substitute .  mr. speaker , i want to put this debate in some perspective .  it was a year ago this week that the commission that the united states congress created gave their report to us , after spending approximately $ 10 million of the taxpayers ' money to put the report together , a year ago .  this debate is about how we spend another year before we do anything , and that is wrong .  what is lacking here is leadership .  the ocean issue goes back generations .  it goes back to the last administration .  president clinton had the first white house conference on the oceans out in california in 1997 .  that was where all the ideas were created that we needed to upgrade all the oceans .  president bush signed into law and appointed members of the committee which gave us this report .  what is happening is that this task force that is before the house today is just a way of delaying , stalling and not getting anything done .  everybody that is speaking here today loves the oceans .  everybody is a supporter of it , and there is not a greater supporter than mr. gilchrest .  but , unfortunately , there is a lack of leadership behind mr. gilchrest .  where , mr. speaker , is the leadership ?  there is a bill in his committee , it has been there for almost a year , and they say , we need more time .  that bill was put together with a coalition of democrats and republicans and sea grant fellows , the staff , the ph.d. 's and mas to come here and work together .  they are on it a year with members and other staff .  there has been all the work done , and it has been put in a bill .  it is a bipartisan bill .  it has all the cosponsors of the oceans caucus , three democrats and three republicans .  that bill is h.r. 2139 and the leader of that bill is mr. weldon  from the republican party .  we have not even been able to have a hearing , not even scheduled a hearing .  that bill could pass , and it is the ocean policy .  it is the sum total of the parts of those two commissions .  we do not need to spend more taxpayer money and more time in our house trying to decide what to do ; we just need to do it .  now , we created a commission after 9/11 , and after the recommendations came back , yes , there was debate on it , but in the same year we adopted it , and we took the recommendations .  this is not being done .  mr. gilchrest  is not getting the support .  what they are giving him is a bone and saying , here , go out and use the bureaucracy of the house to have another task force .  i ask , what date are we going to have a hearing for our bill ?  if we want to have some leadership on this , can you give us a date when the oceans-21 bill will be heard in your committee ?  i just want to know the date .  what month ?  january ?  can we have a hearing on it ?  i have not seen any of that , and i am one of the cosponsors of that bill .  the oceans blueprint for the 21st century is the report that we spent $ 10 million on .  the bill to implement that is called oceans-21 .  this task force , the caucus , have all been bipartisan , have been equally split .  but if you want to look at it , this task force is not only a delay tactic , it is also a very partisan tactic .  the task force , for no apparent reason , will have seven republican members and only five democratic members .  this is the first time in any of the debates we have not been an equal number in leadership and work .  this is a cynical attempt to just delay , to stall .  although you have quoted mr. panetta and admiral watkins , i know they want more than anything legislation to pass , not creation of another task force .  mr. speaker , i rise in opposition to this resolution for many of the reasons that my colleagues have cited .  the fact of the matter is , we have the blueprint for what needs to be done on the oceans .  $ 10 million was spent developing it .  we have another one from the private sector , from the pew foundation , led by our former colleague leon panetta .  i think they spent over $ 4 million .  the resources committee has a budget of $ 14 million .  if there are five other committees , most of their budgets are larger than ours , so you are approaching almost $ 100 million in public moneys that are available to deal with this issue .  and yet we are going to create a task force to study a study and spend another $ 400 , 000 .  either the place is so terribly bureaucratized that it can not respond or it does not want to respond .  the fact of the matter is , we can do this through a select committee and end up with a legislative product , or we can do this through a task force and end up with a study of a study recommending to the committees , that have not shown any interest to date , that they should do something about the oceans .  you are right , the oceans are far too important to be left to that mechanism .  but the fact of the matter is , this task force does not take this any further down the road .  this is about action .  as mr. farr  said , it is about leadership .  we have the expertise in the committees .  when we did the energy bill , the speaker told us that the energy bill would be on the floor by a certain date .  the commerce committee did their part , the ways and means committee did their part .  transportation did their part .  resources did their part .  we saw the bill on monday .  we talked about it on wednesday , voted on it on friday .  it was on the floor the following week .  not a great process , but they obviously wanted to do something to have an energy bill on the floor .  we have done that in other cases .  here they simply do not want to do it .  they really just do not want to do this to protect the oceans , because it requires a commitment of resources .  it requires a national commitment to protect the oceans , and the republican congress is not interested in doing that .  if they wanted to do it , they would do it .  they simply do not want to do it .  but what they want to do now is just throw some additional money at it to kind of kick the can down the road .  the emotions are too important to be kicked down the road .  this should be addressed by this congress .  we have had a year , and nothing has happened .  so now we are going to spend another 6 months and the ball is not going to get advanced very far , other than politically , and then we are going to be back telling the committees they should do something about the oceans .  we just spent $ 15 million telling the committees they should do something about the oceans .  so this is about whether you have the will to do something about the oceans , whether you have the political ability to do something about the oceans and the leadership to do something about the oceans , or you do not .  it just does not make any sense .  this system , i guess , should become more flexible to deal with , because almost all of the tasks now that the congress deals with cut across committee jurisdiction lines .  so we ought to become more flexible to deal with it .  we should not just be throwing more money at it to pretend like we are doing something to advance this incredibly important , incredibly urgent oceans agenda .  this task force does not deal with that .  i urge my colleagues to vote against this .  mr. speaker , i thank the gentlewoman from california for yielding me this time , and i yield myself such time as i may consume .  mr. speaker , in 2003 the pew ocean policy commission put out a comprehensive report telling us that our oceans were in serious trouble .  the republican leadership quickly ignored the report , saying they wanted to wait for the results of the congressionally appointed u.s. commission on ocean policy .  and lo and behold , last september that commission came to the same basic conclusion : that our oceans are in peril from degraded waters , compromised resources , and conflicts between man and nature , and that immediate action is needed .  they laid out some pretty pointed recommendations for congress , and i would like to show this book , which is their recommendations .  over 500 pages at a cost of $ 10 million .  it took them 3 years .  they did a comprehensive report at a cost of $ 10 million .  well over a year has gone by and still the house republican leadership has sat on its hands and done virtually nothing for our oceans .  at the end of 2004 , the fisheries and oceans subcommittee , on which i am the ranking member , held exactly one hearing on the u.s. ocean commission 's recommendation .  this year our subcommittee and the full resources committee have done nothing to comprehensively consider or address the commission 's recommendations despite my repeated requests .  what we have done instead is to hold a random assortment of hearings on a few areas that are mentioned in the commission 's report , but without getting into any of the commission 's recommendations .  we seem to be highlighting the status quo rather than using the commission 's recommendations to move forward .  now , today in the face of the republicans ' consistent refusal to comprehensively address ocean issues , we are now handed the emptiest of promises that this oceans task force would mean real progress in dealing with the commission 's recommendations .  we are not going to fall for that , mr. speaker .  democrats are going to oppose this task force because it does nothing .  its task will literally be to write a report on a report that itself is already quite prescriptive in its instructions to congress .  we do n't need to study what is wrong with the oceans .  we do n't need more reports .  what we need now is action , real action , not this task force .  i would point out that the resolution says we are going to spend $ 400 , 000 , that is on top of the $ 10 million that the u.s. oceans commission has already spent .  that is taxpayer dollars .  that does not count the pew commission .  that , i think , was mostly private funds .  and this is at a time when i keep hearing from the house republican leadership about how we do not have any money and we have to cut expenses and we do not want to waste our money .  well , why are we wasting another $ 400 , 000 in taxpayers ' money on a task force that does not even have any legislative responsibility ?  i listened to mr. hastings , who sponsored this resolution .  he said that there is no legislative jurisdiction in this task force .  and i have heard my colleague , whom i respect greatly , the gentleman from maryland .  he is my chairman and i respect him greatly , but he goes on to say that there are so many committees that have jurisdiction over this that we do n't have the time to deal with it .  let me tell you , the house republican leadership has no problem even ignoring committees and writing a lot of legislation in the rules committee when they want to get something done .  i respect my colleague , but do n't tell me that this republican leadership needs another task force to write a bill , because i have seen bills written in the rules committee and come to the floor directly without even going to committee .  i just do n't buy it .  the truth is the real obstructionists are the republican leaders and the republicans on the resources committee , not all , but most , who have refused to allow a comprehensive consideration of major ocean issues this entire year .  and i mean not just haphazard hearings , but actually doing something that is meaningful .  the majority proposes to ignore this issue for another 6 months by creating a task force that has no legislative authority and comes with no guarantee that we will be any closer to serious action than before we started .  i want to say that my democratic colleagues have specific recommendations that they have put in legislative form , and some of them are here on the floor .  the gentleman from california ( mr. farr )  has put together the oceans 21 bill that has most of the government 's issues that come out of the u.s. commission report .  he is a cochair of the oceans caucus .  the gentleman from maine ( mr. allen )  has put forward the fishing quota standards acts , again adopting a lot of these recommendations .  we also have the reauthorization of the coastal zone management act .  democrats have been out there with legislation that we would like to move through committee that adopt the recommendations of the u.s. oceans commission 's report .  we have alternatives .  we do not need another task force .  and i would point out over and over again i am getting very frustrated , and it may be obvious , with the fact that there is no action on the republican side .  the oceans are a tremendous resource for this nation .  the fishermen , the beach-goers , the coastal business owners in my district , they know this .  they expect us to be working on problems facing our oceans .  they would be quite disappointed to hear that the house leadership continues to ignore these problems and instead is choosing to avoid real action by studying this problem for another year .  again , the pew commission , u.s. oceans commission , they have sounded an alarm ; and it is time to do something to save our oceans and what is in our oceans .  let us reject this unnecessary task force and get down to some real work .  mr. speaker , i reserve the balance of my time .  mr. speaker , i yield myself 30 seconds .  mr. speaker , as one point of clarification regarding the claim made by the gentleman , our chairman , that no select committee was formed to consider the stratton commission recommendations , i believe that the gentleman from maryland was in fact wrong on that .  the senate specifically established a national ocean policy study in the commerce committee for that purpose .  mr. speaker , i yield myself the balance of my time .  mr. speaker , again , i think it is very important that we vote no on this resolution .  essentially , it is going to accomplish nothing .  i said before that , when mr. hastings , who is the sponsor , first spoke earlier today , he said that the task force will have no legislative jurisdiction .  if you read section 3 , jurisdiction , under the resolution , it specifically says : the task force may develop recommendations and report to the house on the final report of the u.s. commission on ocean policy making recommendations for a national oceans policy entitled , an ocean blueprint for the 21st century .  so , again , it says in the resolution , this is nothing but a report on another report which is already 500 pages , and $ 10 million of taxpayers ' money has been spent on it .  why should we spend another $ 400 , 000 to come up with another report on the report with no legislative action ?  my democratic colleague mr. farr  says he has a bill , oceans-21 .  he is the co-chair of the oceans caucus , bipartisan legislation .  he asked the gentleman from maryland , when is there going to be a hearing on that ?  no answer .  when is it going to be reported out ?  no answer .  why ?  because this republican congress does not want to take any action on the ocean commission 's recommendations .  they just want to do another study , another report , another 6-month delay , another $ 400 , 000 , $ 500 , 000 spent .  it is ridiculous .  we had the gentlewoman from california ( ms. woolsey )  she said , why is n't her bill being reported ?  now , i know my colleague from maryland said , well , we ca n't do this because this goes across so many committees ' jurisdictions .  that is really not a legitimate argument .  the bottom line is that this house republican leadership has taken bills , as i said many times , written them in the rules committee .  the notion that they can not get their act together and report out some of these bills , it just does not make any sense .  i think that what we are seeing here is a delaying tactic .  if you think about it , once this gets started , another 6 months , we will be halfway into the last year of this congress , and we will basically see absolutely nothing happen .  the only way that we are going to see action on the ocean commission 's recommendations , the only way that we are going to see anything happen here is if we eliminate this task force and we demand and build pressure on the republican leadership to report out legislation that has already been introduced that would enact the u.s. ocean commission 's report .  that is the main reason i believe why we must vote no on this legislation .  it will accomplish nothing .  it is simply another delay .  mr. speaker , on that i demand the yeas and nays .  mr. speaker , i rise to express my opposition to this resolution .  this ocean policy task force resolution , while well intentioned by its sponsor , is misguided .  its effect would be to deceive the american public into believing that the house of representatives is actually working to advance the recommendations of two comprehensive ocean policy reports when the opposite is true .  as the ranking democratic member on the committee on resources , i staunchly support efforts to restore our ocean and coastal environment .  but what we have before us today smells fishy and i urge members to oppose this ill-advised resolution .  last september , the u.s. commission on ocean policy sent up to the congress a comprehensive report that included over two-hundred specific recommendations to guide the development of a new national ocean policy for the 21st century .  that report -- the first of its kind in over thirty years -- handed the congress an action agenda to finally address the degraded condition of our ocean and coastal resources .  the commission was filled with highly credentialed professionals with expertise in policy , economics , science , technology and resource management drawn from both the public and private sectors and academia .  no one , absolutely no one , questions the caliber of the commission .  for the congress to assert that it can do a better job in six months time than the experts appointed to the commission did in three years is absurd .  moreover , the ocean commission 's report echoed similar findings and recommendations to those made in the 2003 report released by the independent pew oceans commission , chaired by our former colleague , the honorable leon panetta .  if there was anything that these reports conveyed , it is that this is a pressing national problem .  unfortunately , rather than rolling up our sleeves and working in a bi-partisan fashion to begin a process of genuine oversight to evaluate the merits of the ocean commission 's work , months have been allowed to lapse with little , if any , meaningful oversight ; without the development of any joint strategy ; and absent any leadership by the republican majority .  i , along with members from both sides of the aisle , have introduced legislation to implement several of the commission 's recommendations .  my legislation , for example , addresses fisheries management , including how the various fisheries management councils can perform in a more transparent and effective manner .  but instead of debating these substantive proposals , the majority leadership trots out a resolution to create a toothless task force on ocean policy which will only waste precious time .  this is a classic stalling tactic of government -- to study an issue to death .  sadly , our oceans could be on life support before this republican-led congress acts to implement the commission 's recommendations .  i urge members to support true oversight of the ocean commission 's recommendations and to oppose this misguided resolution .  mr. speaker , as the saying goes , it is time for a lot less talk and a lot more action .  the other side of the aisle talks a good game on protecting our oceans , but they control the resources committee .  they control the house floor schedule .  they control this congress .  and what have they done ?  at any time , they can use the house resources committee to bring up legislation to protect the oceans , but they have yet to have hearings or move legislation on marine protected areas , regional governance or coastal management .  instead , they have continually tried to open up our coasts to offshore drilling .  i have introduced h.r. 1712 to protect the coast of sonoma county , california , as part of the national marine sanctuary program , but there have been no hearings on this bill or any other bill to protect our oceans .  let us be clear with the american people : this task force that this bill creates will have no ability to truly affect policy .  mr. speaker , i would ask that instead of talking a good game , that they start bringing up bills , such as h.r. 1712 , that would truly protect our oceans .  mr. speaker , strange things happen around this place when we are getting ready for recess .  legislation just seems to come out of the woodwork sometimes , like the resolution on the suspension calendar today .  the bill before us today would spend $ 400 , 000 of taxpayer money to establish a house task force on ocean policy .  quite simply , it is duplicative and wasteful .  there is already a standing house committee to deal with ocean policy that professional staff already have in place .  the rules committee has not met to consider this resolution .  in fact , no action , at least none that i am aware of , has been taken beyond the simple introduction of this measure .  this resolution just appeared on the schedule at the last minute with no explanation , no details , and no reason for its urgency .  so i am a bit puzzled about why this task force is needed at all .  generally , task forces are created when there is an issue that crosses the jurisdictional lines of several different committees , all of whom claim primary jurisdiction .  in that circumstance , there may well be a need to coordinate efforts in an efficient manner .  however , in this case , the primary issues fall within the jurisdiction of the resources committee .  in fact , there is a subcommittee on fisheries and oceans chaired by the gentleman from maryland ( mr. gilchrest )  .  that is where this issue belongs .  let me be clear : our nation 's ocean policy is a worthy project , but i believe that this issue should be taken up by the resources committee .  that is where the expertise is .  i hope that the resolution 's sponsors and other members speaking here today will shed some light on the need to move so quickly on this measure .  mr. speaker , i ask unanimous consent that the remainder of my time be controlled by the gentleman from new jersey ( mr. pallone )  .  mr. speaker , i am going to vote to send this bill along to the conference and vote `` yes '' for two reasons : first , i think the bill very wisely includes relief for multi-employer plans , an issue that many of us have worked on for a very long period of time .  these are plans run by small businesses who find large contributions to be very stifling to their ability to compete .  i think this relief is long overdue , and it is the principle reason that i will vote to send the bill along to conference .  the second reason is i think conference will finally be the forum where some very serious flaws in the bill can be addressed and renegotiated .  mr. miller 's substitute , which unfortunately was not made in order under this rule , addresses those flaws .  first of all , the law makes it far too easy for failed pension plans to be dumped into the pension benefit guarantee corporation .  mr. miller  and mr. rangel  had ideas that would preclude that dumping from happening .  they ought to be adopted .  second , i think the law ought to make it clear that there can not be bias or favoritism in favor of highly compensated people at the expense of the rank and file .  mr. rangel  and mr. miller 's substitute accomplishes that .  the underlying bill does not .  these and some other issues , i believe , need to be worked out in the conference .  i think , unfortunately , they should have been worked out on this house floor with a proper rule , but with those reservations i will vote to send the bill along to conference .  mr. speaker , the income security of americans has been under constant attack by the administration and congress this year , especially those families who have not had the good fortune to earn a living that places them in our highest income brackets .  the year started with efforts to dismantle social security , an efficient program that is the primary source of income for a majority of retirees .  next , a slanted bankruptcy bill that puts no burden of responsibility on unscrupulous lenders and credit card companies and all of it on the families that face hardships from large medical bills , family breakups , and job losses .  congress has been wringing its hands the last couple of months over which programs for america 's most vulnerable should be cut so tax cuts can be extended years from now .  the latest attack on the security of american families is this pension bill .  it is clear that the pension benefit guaranty corporation must be strengthened and that rules must be put in place to ensure companies adequately fund the promises they make to employees .  instead , the congressional budget office has reported that this bill would actually increase the pbgc 's deficit by $ 9 billion over the next 10 years .  the bill also legalizes cash balance plans without protections for long serving employees .  it has been reported that without older worker protections over 90 percent of older workers would lose expected pension benefits if a defined benefit plan were converted to a cash balance plan .  additionally , this bill does nothing to help the struggling airline industry that has already seen united airlines employees and retirees lose over $ 3 billion in earned pension benefits .  strengthening the pension system and providing security to all families should be a priority of congress and can be achieved with fiscal responsibility and fair policy .  this bill falls short on both accounts .  madam speaker , i yield myself such time as i may consume .  madam speaker , the objective of this legislation should be to encourage the retention and expansion of traditional defined benefit plans .  traditional defined benefit plans generally offer a guaranteed benefit to the worker and , they are generally well managed and diversified .  the passage of this bill , in my view , will set up a conference report that will come back to us that will accelerate the termination of well-funded and managed traditional defined benefit plans .  and i say that for three reasons .  three parts of this legislation will adversely affect well-funded and managed plans .  first , the funding roles are more costly and more restrictive .  that in and of itself will act as a disincentive for continuation of these plans .  second , there is a failure to include relief for the airline industry , clearly putting pressure on well-funded and managed plans to pick up the costs for other industries , questioning whether they should stay and provide these plans .  third , we continue to allow companies to go into bankruptcy in order to dump their costs onto the pbgc , once again affecting those well-funded plans that are going to be asked to pick up the tab .  for all these reasons this legislation is likely to accelerate the termination of plans that we would want to see continued .  the termination of these plans will just adversely affect the funding of the pbgc , the guaranteed fund , complicating the situation and making it worse .  madam speaker , i want to point out that there are provisions in this legislation that are very good .  the provisions dealing with the defined contribution provisions are needed and , as it was pointed out in the ways and means committee , contain many of the provisions that were worked on through the portman-cardin process as well as legislation presented by mr. emanuel  and mr. pomeroy .  it includes automatic enrollment , the split refunds where tax refunds can go partially into retirement savings , the extension of the savers credit , the ability for individuals to roll over funds and keep them in retirement funds longer .  all of those are positive aspects .  however , when you look at this bill in balance , we do need to pass legislation ; but on balance this legislation will cause more harm than good , and i urge my colleagues to reject the bill .  madam speaker , i reserve the balance of my time .  mr. speaker , i am curious : is the majority on the ways and means side going to be using their time or not ?  does the gentleman know ?  can i inquire as to the amount of time that remains on all sides ?  the time for the gentleman from michigan ?  mr. speaker , i reserve the balance of my time .  mr. speaker , first let me yield myself 30 seconds to point out that i wish we did have provisions in this bill to deal with the airline industry , because i think we should .  the problem is that we do not , and we go to conference with a situation where those who have well-funded plans are now likely to be asked to pay because of the costs of the airline industry .  and let me also point out from mr. boehner 's comment about making the pbgc better funded , if we have a lot of terminated plans , it is not going to be better funded .  and the gentleman brags about a permanent yield curve which is unpredictable to business .  it would be better to have a corporate bond rate , and i am sorry that is not in the legislation .  mr. speaker , i reserve the balance of my time .  mr. speaker , i yield myself the balance of my time .  mr. speaker , i am sure that people who are watching this debate are somewhat confused about some of the technical provisions that we have talked about on the funding of a guaranteed fund .  but let me try to simplify it .  the bottom line is that the total changes that are being suggested make it more rigid and less predictable for those companies that have traditional pension plans as to how much money they have to put into the guaranteed fund .  understand that the guaranteed fund is funded by the companies making contributions to the guaranteed fund .  it is not funded by the government .  so if you have a plan that is well-funded and you are now being told it is going to cost you more to stay in that plan , there is an incentive for you to freeze your plan or to leave .  that is what is going to happen , and that is why we are very concerned about many people losing their traditional pension plans as a result of this legislation .  the second point , let me point out , is that many members have been talking about the airline industry and to try to help the airline industry .  i pointed out that i think we should do that .  we should do that because , a , it will allow the guaranteed fund to concentrate on other plans , and companies will not arbitrarily cancel their plans because they are afraid they are going to be stuck with the costs of bailing out the airline industry .  that makes sense .  but we are told : we are going to do that in conference , trust us .  we are the legislative body .  we should do it .  how do we know what is going to come out of conference ?  it is our responsibility to make sure it is done .  we made some changes for the auto industry .  why have we not brought in those provisions ?  it is our responsibility to do it .  and i have n't heard anyone talk about how we are going to correct the problem of an industry going into bankruptcy in order to save their costs .  is there any hope that that will come out of conference ?  i doubt it .  we can do better .  i urge my colleagues to reject this bill .  let me thank mr. miller  for offering this substitute .  i am pleased to join him .  i listened to a lot of my colleagues talk in favor of this bill , telling me things they do not particularly like about it , things that will be , they hope , corrected in conference , and now we have a motion to recommit that does exactly that .  so if we are sincere in wanting to move the process forward so that we can get to conference , let us speak to what we want to get from the conference report .  let me make it clear that the rule did not permit us to offer this directly as a substitute , so the only way we can do it is by the motion to recommit .  but it does contain the issues that many have talked about .  it has the good without the bad .  it has the provisions for the defined contributions , so that we can deal with the 401 ( k ) s and the iras and the savers credits and automatic enrollments and those provisions that are important .  but it also deals with the issue of the airline industry directly , not on a promise that we will deal with it in conference , and it deals with the revolving door of bankruptcy , which , if we do not correct , we are going to have other problems in addition to the airline industry .  so it deals with those problems .  but it does one more thing , mr. speaker , that is critically important : it takes away the additional deficit that this bill would create .  this bill will add an additional $ 14 billion to the deficit of this country .  the substitute pays for the cost of the legislation so that we do not add to the growing problem of the deficit of this nation .  this is a responsible motion , and i urge my colleagues to support it .  mr. speaker , in texas , gray skies could mean a twister , a hurricane , or just a lot of rain .  to avoid disaster , we want a reliable weather forecast .  the same when we go to the doctor , a diagnosis before taking necessary action .  and the same should also be true of our economic health .  families that work hard to earn a pension depend on it for retirement security .  but too many suddenly find that their pension funds are drained , denying them of the dignified and comfortable retirement for which they have worked a lifetime .  in addition to the many other problems identified here today by my democratic ways and means colleagues , this bill lacks a pension disclosure requirement that would empower workers to understand just how strong or weak their pension plans really are .  having to wait until a retirement fund 's bankruptcy is announced in the newspaper is a little too late for employees to take any remedial action to be able to protect themselves .  both the government accountability office and the pension benefit guaranty corporation recommend that employees be provided information far beyond the provisions of this bill .  i think it is important that we not leave the employees in the dark with corporate employers blocking the light switch .  a majority of the house voted to allow the federal government to comb through library records yesterday .  why can employees not be allowed full access to their own pension information today ?  mr. speaker , this legislation is a missed opportunity .  as my colleague from maryland just noted , i have sponsored legislation on the automatic enrollment and 401 ( k ) plans , direct deposit of tax savings into a savings plan , and the savers credit for people with moderate income , to start saving .  why ?  because basically almost 80 percent of small business employees have no retirement plan outside of social security .  for approximately 38 percent of the households in america , the only savings plan they have is social security .  by doing what is right , by helping people start up their personal savings through 401 ( k ) s and other types of personal savings , we would actually encourage people to save for their retirement .  so this legislation on the defined contribution level takes the right step .  and it is so unfortunate because we can get an overwhelming vote for those provisions to help americans save outside of social security .  and i am glad we took this year to stop the privatization of social security .  but in doing that , they have added the provisions on the defined benefit plans .  on a stand-alone , none of that would pass .  so what they are trying to do is get the goods through customs using the defined contributions to get through what i think are some very dangerous provisions as it relates to the defined benefit plans for millions of workers who have basically negotiated a deal with their employers .  because what does this legislation do ?  it makes a bad situation worse .  the pbgc and the congressional budget office have estimated that in fact $ 9 billion in defaulted plans would be left on the taxpayers .  we started 3 years ago with the pbgc , which guarantees all retirement plans in this country , with a surplus .  today , we are running a deficit , and this legislation would make that situation worse .  as the old saying goes , when you are in a hole stop digging .  this legislation would dig even faster .  companies , and we know them all , we have seen the stories , are using our bankruptcy laws to literally dump their pension systems , and it is a backdoor to walk out of their obligation .  this legislation does nothing to stop companies from dumping their plans , and it does not ensure fairness between workers and executives .  so while there are good provisions that relate to the defined contributions , it makes the defined benefit plans much worse .  madam speaker , mr. mcgovern , my distinguished friend from massachusetts ; my good friend , the distinguished gentleman from the state of washington ; and i were in 6 hours of hearings yesterday on something called border security , anti-terrorism , and illegal immigration , and we came here this morning at 7 a.m. , ostensibly to pass out the rules necessary to hear that bill .  until 15 minutes ago , i was on this floor of this house waiting to hear that bill .  i ask my colleagues in the majority : where is this terribly onerous , atrocious bill ?  why do you not pull it ?  the reason that we are not taking it first , rather than what we are now patching up as pensions , and caution to america , what we are about to see is protection of ceos with their golden parachutes while workers and their pensions are getting a brass shaft .  but that is not my point i want to make .  what i want to say is we are getting ready to create fear and confusion , and there is substantial confusion on the majority side in light of the fact that they are shifting from this bill to that bill and not dealing with the things we need to do and get on out of here .  we do not need to do this immigration and border security bill , and i hope that your confusion led you to the same conclusion and that you will pull that sucker .  mr. speaker , i rise to express my opposition to the pension reform legislation that we are considering today .  i oppose this legislation because it will further erode an employer 's willingness to provide defined benefit plans and will close the loopholes that allow companies to dump their pension obligations on to taxpayers .  throughout the 1990 's , in american workplaces a dramatic shift from traditional defined-benefit plans to defined-contribution plans occurred .  rather than being able to count on a regular pension check of a specified amount each month for the rest of his or her life , many workers must now put money in a mutual fund or other investment and take what comes each month for as long as it may last .  many other companies began to `` cash out '' their pensions giving employees a cash balance payout , claiming it was equivalent to a pension .  it is not equivalent to a pension .  furthermore , some companies have used the pension benefit guarantee corporation to bail them out of their financial troubles .  now , millions of workers have entered retirement , only to learn that their company could not provide the benefits they had been promised .  the pension benefit guarantee corporation has amassed a $ 23 billion deficit , jeopardizing unlike the democratic substitute that representative miller and representative rangel tried to offer , this bill will not make it more difficult for companies to use the bankruptcy code to dump their pension obligations to the pension benefit guarantee corporation ( pbgc ) .  the decision of united airlines to force the pbgc to cover its pension obligations resulted in reduced benefits for its employees and retirees and shifted its burden to fulfill pension promises on to the american taxpayer .  as a result of united airlines action , the pbgc was forced to absorb $ 8 billion in guaranteed benefits , and employees and retirees lost $ 3 billion in their earned pension benefits .  then the directors of the reorganized company gave themselves bonuses .  northwest and delta airlines , as well as companies such as delphi are also on the verge of following in the path of united airlines .  this will undoubtedly increase the pbgc deficit , and further jeopardize its i also believe that the provisions in the bill that legalize cash balance plans will hurt millions of workers .  over 8 million workers have already been affected by cash balance conversions , before the courts put a hold on the discriminatory way companies converted to these cash balance plans .  the gao has estimated that without older worker protections over 85 percent of younger workers and 90 percent of older workers would loose expected pension benefits if a defined benefit plan were converted to a cash balance plan .  legalizing cash balance plans will hurt workers that are nearing retirement and will cause more anxiety for younger workers that must plan for retirement with uncertain benefits .  although i will oppose this bill for the aforementioned reasons , there are provisions that i believe will benefit workers .  for example , this legislation will allow employers to give their employees access to professional investment advice .  with the dramatic increase in hybrid plans and defined contribution plans , employees are now faced with making multiple investment decisions that will have a profound impact on their retirement security .  this investment advice provision will ensure that workers will be able to make informed decisions regarding their future .  american workers deserve to know that their pension is secure and that they will receive the benefits that they have been promised during their years of service .  as this bill moves to conference , i hope the conferees will be able to improve the shortcomings of this legislation so that we can pass legislation that will preserve the defined benefit pension system .  mr. speaker , i have to join the gentleman from massachusetts on his concern and dismay , frustration , and i think that outrage that the opportunity for a democratic substitute , first of all , to express some of the failures of this particular underlying bill and as well the opportunities to improve this legislation seemingly has been denied .  i speak from a particularly unique perspective , mr. speaker , because my district contained enron , and the thousands of employees that , within hours of the bankruptcy filing by enron , lost not only their jobs but their lives , their homes and their future .  i can not tell you the number of individuals in houston and the surrounding areas and other areas that were impacted , lost their lives , actually died because of the absolute oppression and outrage and the impact of what happened to them .  and then we speak to the pensions and the investment of course in company stock .  but this particular bill as it relates to the pension issue just does not go far enough because what it happens to do is it emphasizes the pension crisis , and it causes many of the companies , and i think those who are listening beyond the borders of this particular chamber should understand that this bill that will be voted on today really causes companies to freeze or abandon your pension plans .  this does not encourage investment in your pension plans .  it also denies the necessary flexibility and relief for airlines that unfortunately did not get in this bill , but is in the senate bill .  any of us who fly the nation 's airways know that the flight attendants are constantly saying that we , after 20 years and 30 years , are being forced to give up our pension rights .  why could we not come to the floor of the house and have a better plan ?  this , of course , provides a funding crisis that is far worse .  it increases the debt by $ 9 billion .  it causes companies , it does not stop companies from dumping underfunded pension plans onto taxpayers .  and so , if you want to look into the eyes of despair , just follow the track of enron when those particular employees who had bought into the seriousness and the depth of commitment called family that enron represented , and in a matter of a pen , in the matter of 48 hours , they were not only dumped , their pensions were dumped and they had nothing .  what we should be doing in this instance is then ensuring and shoring up those liabilities or the potential of those liabilities and the negative impact it would have on people who work so very hard .  i would ask my colleagues , we have enough time .  there is time to continue this debate and to send this particular underlying bill back .  there is time to make this bill compatible with the senate before it even leaves the house .  there is time , i guess if we wanted to waive the points of order , to allow a democratic substitute .  but this is not the route that we should be taking .  and in the name of those who we pretended to be concerned about , not only the enron employees who spent almost 2 years with us here in the united states congress , but other employees and workers around america , i would ask my colleagues to send this bill back and make a better bill .  mr. speaker , i thank the gentleman for yielding me this time .  the prior speaker said we have fixed it .  well , if it is fixed , why are the airlines not included in the legislation ?  i have been on the floor of the house ever since i came here .  my daddy worked for united for 40 years .  my sister worked for united for 25 years .  my brother-in-law worked for united for 27 years .  my niece works for united right now .  if we are so concerned about them , why is it not in the legislation ?  secondly , if we fixed it , why is it unclear what happens with cash balance plans that are already in place and the irs has not given them a decision ?  we go prospectively , but we do not go retroactively .  in the city of cleveland , there are four companies that went into a cash balance plan , and cash balance plans are the wave of the future .  people want portability .  they are not going to work for united , like my dad , for 40 years .  they are going to work one place 7 years .  they are going to work somewhere else 7 years , and they need to move their money around .  it is the wave of the future , and we have not fixed cash balance plans .  and i encourage my colleagues to fix it .  if they are saying we fixed it , fix it right now .  i want to encourage mr. boehner , mr. thomas , mr. camp  and everyone else : do not tell us we are going to fix it in conference .  put it in the bill .  i would like to see it in writing .  i want to see it in red , black , blue , brown , whatever color you want to give it to me .  our promises are idle if it is not in writing .  i want this legislation to work for americans because people do deserve certainty .  they deserve certainty .  employers who went into a plan , they even paid up for their employees to deal with the issue of wear-away , and they can not get clarity on the programs that they have in place right now .  help them .  fix it .  mr. speaker , i rise in reluctant support of the pension protection act of 2005 , h.r. 2830 .  i commend the authors of this bill who worked with elements of the union movement to craft legislation designed to address some of the issues affecting the employer-provided pension system .  key stakeholders in michigan 's 13th congressional district support the bill that we will consider today .  organizations like general motors , ford motor company , the united auto workers union , building trade unions , northwest airlines , airline pilots , flight attendants , and more have contacted my office to express their support for the bill .  the leadership of my party has pointed out that the bill has several major shortcomings .  my leadership argues that h.r. 2830 does very little over the long-term to strengthen traditional , defined benefit plans .  had the majority permitted members on my side of the aisle to amend the bill , i am sure that our suggestions would go a long way to improving the legislative product before us .  we , however , are being denied that opportunity , and i must decide what best represents the interests of the income security needs of my southeast michigan constituents .  after careful examination , i have decided to support the passage of h.r. 2830 , but with the hope that it will be improved when a compromised is reached with the other body .  my district is the center of the world automotive industry .  as my colleagues know , the economic condition of the gm , ford motor and daimler-chrysler is under stress .  the workers employed in local plant sites throughout the nation feel their future income security is threatened because their pensions are dependent on the financial health of company-sponsored plans .  all in all , this bill strengthens funding for employer pension plans and includes reforms advocated by companies and unions who participate in multi-employer pension plans .  therefore , i vote for this bill with hope that it will move the process forward to address the pension concerns of the airline industry and airline employees and the concerns of our steelworkers , who take exception with shutdown provisions of the bill to address the pension needs of companies in total `` shutdown '' status .  mr. speaker , i mostly want to talk about substance .  but you know it is so hypocritical for anybody on the majority side to come here and say that the minority is just saying no when you will not allow us to put on the floor a substitute to which we want to say a resounding yes .  that is really hypocrisy .  this is too important a subject to be governed by the tyranny of the majority .  we need to strengthen and to save defined benefit plans in this country .  this is the question .  will this bill do that ?  and i think the answer is basically , in all likelihood , it will not strengthen and preserve , but it will weaken and over time eliminate .  look , when it came to social security your mantra was save , strengthen social security .  and the president , in this chamber , used those terms , when the real purpose was not to save and strengthen social security .  the purpose was to replace it .  and there is a legitimate issue here , whether what you are proposing here , when combined with the senate 's and with the administration 's position , will it preserve and strengthen defined benefit plans or will it likely undermine ?  and the answer , i think , is that it will do the latter .  when we come to the general debate , i am going to be talking about a number of the factors .  there are four key factors at play in this bill .  they are technical , but they are vital : the yield curve , the credit balance issue , the credit rating or how assets are evaluated , and the averaging and smoothing issues .  as to just one of them , the yield curve provision in this bill , the people who work with these issues , the chief financial investment people , 60 percent , say essentially that most of the pension plans are going to either be frozen or they are going to be eliminated .  that is what 60 percent of these officers say will be the result .  so you are not going to be protecting workers from underfunded pension plans .  what you are going to be doing , essentially , is putting in place rules that will make it difficult for pension plans to exist and , therefore , they will be withdrawn , if not , frozen .  so that is really the basic issue here .  and it is heightened because of the administration 's position .  they want to so tighten the rules that it will be hard for any of these defined benefit plans to survive .  so this is the basic issue , whether in this country we want to try to preserve defined benefit plans .  most of them are not in trouble .  many of them would be placed in trouble through a combination of the provisions in this bill and in the senate bill .  so i want to close with this : what you are saying , and you have said it on the floor , is leave it to the conference committee .  for example , there is no protection for airline workers here at all .  leave it to the conference committee .  what you have said to a few of the people is we will make some adjustments here in this bill , but there is no assurance that those adjustments will prevail .  so in a word , what you are trying to do is not protect defined benefit plans , but through these provisions and those in the senate bill , with the help of the administration , you are going to accelerate their demise .  that is our position .  and it is worthy of discussion .  it is worthy of debate , and it is worthy of your giving us a substitute that would make sure that defined benefit plans can survive in the united states of america for the workers of this country .  mr. speaker , in a few words , what we need to do is to reform our pension system but not to undermine it .  there is a basic issue here , and i hope members will pay attention to it .  we have had in this country in the private sector a system of guaranteed monthly benefits under defined pension plans in the private sector for millions and millions of people .  that has been meaningful .  what i think is going to happen if this bill becomes law and if it were to be combined in conference with provisions in the senate is essentially to undermine defined benefit plans and move us towards what are called defined contribution plans , so more and more , everybody will rely on a 401 ( k ) instead of the guaranteed benefit in the private sector .  that shift was tried in social security by the majority .  it failed for good reasons , and now i think there is another effort here regarding private pension plans to lead to the same result .  we asked the bush administration when they testified before ways and means , tell us the impact on industry of your proposals .  they could not tell us .  if you look at the chief financial officers , 60 percent of them who deal with pension plans essentially say that this yield curve of the administration , and there is a modified version of it in this bill , would lead to benefit cuts and termination of defined benefit plans , and that would affect manufacturing as well as other industries .  i know there have been some efforts to moderate that .  various people have scrambled to try to reduce the potential undermining of defined benefit plans through this provision on credit balances , but i want everybody to know that that is not likely to work out in the main because this republican bill would discourage companies from doing the responsible and sensible thing , advance funding their pension plans to free up resources in years when they needed to make big expenditures , like rolling out a big product line , and penalize those who would do it any way , who would advance funds .  look , there are some transition rules , but they are not going to basically resolve this issue of whether we are going to maintain , strengthen defined benefit plans .  now , it is said , look to the conference committee .  all i can say is , look at the history of conference committees in this institution in recent years .  what is likely to come out is a bill that would make this bill even worse , and even if it did not , what we face with this bill is this basic question : do we want to strengthen defined guaranteed pension plans and payments , or are we going to move to everybody on their own ?  i think this house should stand up and say , let us stand up for a defined benefit system in this country .  madam speaker , this bill proves that the republicans are not just after poor people .  this pension bill boils down to one fundamental principle : the republicans want all americans , including flight attendants and everybody else out there on a pension , to be entirely alone , isolated from the strength and compassion of american values .  i am here to say that this pension bill that forces elderly americans into solitary confinement is abusive , irresponsible and morally bankrupt .  this whole year has been about doing it to people .  get rid of social security , privatize it , put them on their own .  medicare : privatize it , put them on their own .  now we have the pension bill : privatize it , put them on their own .  take away the union benefit , how will they do it ?  they are going to boeing .  they squeeze boeing tight , and boeing flips into 401 ( k ) , and there goes the pension down the drain .  now this raises the question , what is wrong with you people ?  we decided a long time ago in this country that there was strength in numbers .  we had to do things together .  that is why social security was developed .  that is why medicare was developed .  the republican vision articulated in this bill is that america is a sinking ship , and the shout is for every man and woman , you are on your own .  they call it an ownership society .  you will still have a pension ; it will be a 401 ( k ) .  but it really is , you are on your own .  if you can figure out the market , good luck , baby .  there are not enough lifeboats in the water , and we know that , and everybody is jumping off the ship .  in 1980 , 40 percent of employers provided a pension .  today , only 20 percent do .  now , that is a 50 percent reduction in 20 years , and the pensions that are provided , fewer provide a guaranteed benefit than they used to get .  so what do we have left ?  the stark fact is that half of america 's retirees have less than $ 15 , 000 income .  imagine living in the united states on $ 15 , 000 after working for 45 years .  only 50 percent of american households have retirement savings at all , but if they do not have a benefit from the pension and their social security , which has not been ripped away from them , they got nothing .  now , half of the households who have savings have an average $ 385 a month .  so they get their social security , $ 1 , 800 a month at the maximum , and $ 385 , oh , they are living fat on $ 2 , 000 a month .  the people without any savings are disproportionately poor , have nothing except social security , and the republicans , as i say , tried to take that away earlier in the year .  we beat them on that , and we should beat them on this .  this is the definition of financial freedom that republicans want for americans : they want riskier pensions and no way for anybody to be sure of anything .  i urge my colleagues to vote no on this .  well , let me thank my colleague from florida for that eloquent and accurate statement and assessment of where we are here .  madam speaker , millions of americans who work in the private sector are relying on having an employer-sponsored pension plan when they retire .  an important part of the american dream is to have a nest egg that people can tap into during their golden years so that they are not forced to literally work until they die .  american workers have fought for and earned the right to pay into a pension system that will provide an income once they retire .  unfortunately , there are serious problems with america 's private pension system .  madam speaker , pension security is an important issue , one indeed which should be addressed by this congress , but pension security must be addressed in the right way and it deserves to be addressed in a democratic way .  bankruptcies in the airlines , steel , and the auto parts industries , for example , are straining the abilities of the pension benefit guaranty corporation , or the pbgc , to guarantee the private pensions of workers in these industries .  the pbgc was created as an insurance system for america 's private pension plans .  it exists to make sure that america 's workers will receive a pension when they retire , even if the company they work for can not pay that pension .  now , while there are real problems in some industries , like the steel industry , there are also serious cases of pension dumping , where a corporation claims it can not fulfill its obligations and dumps its pension onto the pbgc .  the net effect is a real strain on the pbgc and ultimately a crisis in the pension system .  the pbgc is an insurance policy for america 's workers .  it is a safety net should a company not be able to pay its pension obligations .  but it is not supposed to be a dumping ground for corporations who want to boost their bottom line and just do not feel like paying the pensions they promised their workers .  it is this looming crisis in america 's pension system that brings us here today .  now , no one believes we should sit and wait while america 's pension system crashes around us , but we need to address this problem in the right way , and regrettably , madam speaker , the pension protection act the republicans have concocted is not the right way .  mr. boehner , one of the authors of this bill , told the rules committee yesterday that this bill is tough medicine .  what he did not say is that it is tough medicine for america 's workers .  madam speaker , this bill will have a real effect on millions of americans ' lives and on the quality of their lives as they grow older .  the fact is that this bill that chairman thomas and chairman boehner have brought before us will make the problem worse , not better .  this is the wrong prescription for what ails america 's pension system .  both the congressional budget office and the pbgc estimate that the pension protection act will actually lead to an increase in pension plan terminations and an increase in the pbgc 's liabilities by billions of dollars .  clearly , that simply can not be what anyone in this chamber really wants .  the goal should be to enact legislation that guarantees workers their full pensions .  instead , passage of this bill will allow corporations to turn their backs on their loyal employees and shirk the responsibilities they face to provide a real pension to their employees .  there exists in this country a culture of corporate corruption , where companies like enron and worldcom squander billions of dollars in retirement funds , and this legislation does not do anything , nothing , to fix that .  congressman george miller , a strong champion of the american worker and working families , recently released a report entitled : broken promises -- america 's pension plans at risk .  this report shows that pension plans are underfunded by $ 450 billion ; that the pbgc is $ 23 billion in the red , with more obligations coming in every day , and that the current pension and bankruptcy laws allow companies to dump their unwanted pension obligations on to the pbgc .  proving that this bill makes things worse and not better , the report documents that the boehner-thomas bill could , and i quote , `` cause as many as half of all large pension plans to freeze benefits. '' ranking member miller , along with ranking member on the ways and means committee rangel , have an answer .  they have crafted a substitute that actually protects workers ' pensions .  the substitute also reforms the bankruptcy laws so that corporations can not hide behind bankruptcy in order to dump their pension obligations onto the pbgc .  in addition , the miller-rangel bill addresses a serious inequity where rank and file pension plans are at risk of being dumped onto the pbgc but somehow the corporate executives continue to receive golden parachutes .  a ceo should not receive millions of dollars in bonuses and other incentives if they have terminated the pension plan for their rank-and-file workers .  now , i am sure my friends on the other side of the aisle will boast about how their legislation they have crafted is fabulous .  i disagree , but i respect their right to have their say and to have their views debated .  those of us on this side of the aisle believe we have a better approach , one that is fair to millions of americans and their families who get up every morning , put in a hard day 's work and are the very backbone of america 's economy and our communities .  unfortunately , madam speaker , we will not have an opportunity to present our proposal .  the republicans on the rules committee late last night said , no , an alternative viewpoint will not be tolerated , can not be presented to the members of this house , and it certainly will not be debated and voted on on this floor .  apparently , the republican definition of democracy is my way or the highway .  they have decided that the united states house of representatives is really not a deliberative body , it is a place that does not respect differing viewpoints , and it is unreasonable to have a full and open debate on an issue as important as pension protection .  last night , chairman boehner , to his credit , said he had no problem with democrats having an ability to offer a substitute .  so what happened ?  i will tell you what happened .  the republican leadership , in yet another display of arrogance and disrespect , decided to close the process , to gag us , to use the rules committee as a weapon to stifle debate .  once again the rules committee is where democracy comes to die .  now , let me say , with all due respect to my friends on the other side of the aisle , it is the majority that is responsible for creating a climate in this house that is devoid of bipartisanship and civility .  it is beyond my comprehension why the majority would deliberately choose to shut us out of being able to offer an alternative .  this is not the house of only republicans , this is the people 's house , where serious issues should be debated and voted on .  this rule is anti-democratic , this rule is closed , and this rule should be defeated .  broken promises -- america 's pension plans at risk : independent analysis finds that republican plan makes pension crisis worse americans are worried sick about their retirement nest-egg , and they are demanding decisive action by congress .  they saw what happened at enron and worldcom and at other companies -- where billions of hard earned investments by employees disappeared forever in only months due to corporate fraud and mismanagement .  today employees and retirees are watching as some employers like united and usair have rushed to dump their pension promises onto the taxpayer and other employers , at the expense of employees and retirees who face billions in uninsured pension promises .  traditional pension plans , once the sturdy pillar of retirement security , are very much at risk unless congress takes immediate action .  here are the serious warning signs that threaten our nation 's pension plans : pension plans are now underfunded by $ 450 billion , up over 1 , 000 % since 2000 .  the agency that insures traditional pension plans ( the pension benefit guaranty corporation ) is $ 23 billion in the red , and is facing billions more in possible claims from companies such as delta airlines , delphi , and northwest airlines .  pension and bankruptcy laws allow companies to dump their unwanted pension promises onto the pbgc , leaving taxpayers , employees and retirees to foot the bill .  like the savings and loan debacle of the 1980s , taxpayers are at risk of having to pay billions of dollars due to broken promises , this time by company-sponsored pension plans .  many employees and retirees face severe reductions in their promised pension benefits as their plans are turned over to the federal government , or frozen by companies when their sponsor falls behind in their obligation to fund promised benefits .  employees are blindsided when their plan is dumped onto the federal government because they are not provided up-to-date information on the real financial condition of their pension plan .  employees and retirees in such cases are not only cheated out of promised pension benefits , but sometimes suffer further injury and insult by company executives who cut their own sweetheart golden parachute deals .  now delta and northwest are in bankruptcy and very well could dump their pension plans onto the pbgc .  according to the pbgc , delta airlines is underfunded by $ 10.6 billion .  the pbgc loss would be $ 8.4 billion , and the employees and retirees would lose $ 2.2 billion in promised benefits .  northwest airlines is $ 5.7 billion underfunded .  the pbgc loss would be $ 2.8 billion , and the employee loss even greater -- $ 2.9 billion .  and now more dominos are falling .  delphi auto parts has filed for bankruptcy -- the largest such filing in the history of the auto industry .  according the pbgc , the delphi claim on the pbgc would be $ 4.1 billion .  the hit on employees -- estimated over $ 10 billion in uninsured losses -- would be the largest ever .  that tops the $ 6 billion in worker losses that pbgc estimates occurred from its 4 previous largest pension plan terminations .  according to the congressional budget office , the republican house bill ( h.r. 2830 ) passed by the education and workforce committee and ways and means committee would increase the pbgc 's red ink by $ 9 billion over the next ten years .  the pbgc also analyzed the house bill and found it would increase the agency 's deficit bill billions more than current law projections .  specifically , it found that republican house bill would permit pension sponsors to slash required contributions by $ 75 billion over the next ten years compared to contributions required under current law .  the pbgc 's 35 page study released on october 26 , 2005 analyzed detailed information of 400 pension plans , representing 50 % of the liabilities and underfunding in the pension system .  the republican proposal could cause as many as half of all large pension plans to freeze benefits .  the pbgc estimates that more than 50 % of a sample h.r. 2830 fails to reform pensions in several other respects .  the bill fails to stop companies from dumping their obligations on to the federal government , fails to provide employees with accurate information on the financial condition of pension plans , fails to stop executives from cutting and running with their own sweetheart pension deal while slashing employee pensions , fails to protect older employees when a company converts to `` cash balance '' plans , permits conflicted investment advice , and punishes employees for plan underfunding by curtailing benefits .  democrats are fighting to save and strengthen pension plans by : stopping companies like united from dumping their unwanted pension promises onto the taxpayers and employees .  because the congress did n't lift a finger to stop united from unloading its pension plan , we have a new group of companies ready to dump and run .  the government should not be a cookie jar for companies who failed to keep their fiduciary promise to set aside funds for their employee pension plans .  requiring pension plans to follow a clear and fair plan to restore their pension funds .  the pension bills going through congress right now actually make underfunding worse according to the congressional budget office and the pbgc government pension insurance agency .  requiring pension plans to give employees accurate , up-to-date information on their pension plans financial condition .  employees should never have to wake up one morning and read in the papers that their pension plan has failed .  today , sponsors of pension plans are permitted to keep two sets of books , one set of books make available to the public and one set of more accurate books that is kept secret by the federal government .  prohibiting company executives in charge of underfunded pension plans from entering into sweetheart retirement deals while they 're moving to dump their employees pension plan on to the taxpayers .  millions of americans have worked hard to earn the retirement promised by their company .  without urgent , decisive action by congress , millions of americans face the loss of billions in irreplaceable like savings due to the broken promises of their plan sponsor .  the republican answer to this crisis is to hasten the unraveling of pension plans by allowing companies to skip out on over $ 75 billion in contributions over the next 10 years , and increasing pbgc 's red ink by billions of dollars .  at the same time , republicans are refusing to stop companies from dumping their unwanted pension promises onto the pbgc at the expense of taxpayers , employees , and other employers .  madam speaker , i reserve the balance of my time .  madam speaker , the gentleman from georgia just gave a nice speech , but nobody on that side has explained why on this very important issue that the democrats and people with alternative views should be entirely locked out from participating in amending this bill .  this is an outrage .  madam speaker , i yield myself such time as i may consume .  madam speaker , once again , we heard an interesting speech but no explanation as to why we have to bring this bill to the floor under a closed process and why we are shut out from even offering an alternative .  mr. speaker , i yield myself such time as i may consume .  the gentleman from indiana tells us we should all be happy because the education committee deliberated on this and there were votes in that committee .  i should remind the gentleman that there are 49 members of the education committee .  there are 435 members of the house of representatives .  the gentleman gets all upset when mr. miller  talks about the fact that it is important for us to be an example to iraq about what democracy is , and that there are elections in iraq and , you know , here we are engaged in an undemocratic process here today .  but i will say this .  at least in iraq everyone has an opportunity to vote .  here we are being denied an opportunity deliberately on this floor on an issue that impacts millions and millions of our fellow citizens .  this is an outrage .  you know , i am amazed that people on the other side , who only a few years back would decry a closed process like this , have now come to embrace this process .  this has become the norm in this house , and it has to stop .  this is not democracy .  this is not a deliberative process .  this is a closed process where legitimate , important debate on important issues is being denied routinely .  mr. speaker , i yield myself such time as i may consume .  let me just again say to the gentleman from south carolina who just spoke , what we are asking for here is an opportunity to offer what we think is best .  we disagree with you .  we disagree with your approach .  not only do we disagree with your approach , the aarp disagrees with your approach .  aarp , december 12 , 2005 .  dear representative : aarp is writing to express its opposition to a number of critical elements of h.r. 2830 , the pension protection act of 2005 , scheduled for house consideration this week .  we share the goal of enacting new pension funding rules that will require employers to fully fund their pension plans and provide new revenue for the pension benefit guaranty corporation .  these changes are long overdue and should be enacted into law as soon as possible .  however , we can not support legislation that would clarify the legal status of cash balance pension plans without providing protections for older , long-service workers involved in cash balance plan conversions and without including a prohibition on all discriminatory age based `` wearaway. '' we are also deeply concerned that this bill would , for the first time , permit defined contribution pension plans to provide investment advice subject to inherent financial conflicts .  1 .  cash balance pension plans aarp believes that cash balance plans have a role to play in the private pension system if -- and only if -- they are designed and adopted in a manner that protects the millions of older workers who have given up wages in exchange for traditional defined benefit pensions .  cash balance pension plan conversions change the rules in the middle of the game , and older , longer-service workers are at considerable risk .  they generally lose out on larger late career benefits , have less time to accumulate benefits under the new cash balance formula , and are less able to leave their current job if benefits are cut because they typically have fewer job prospects .  h.r. 2830 does not protect older and longer-service workers that are involved in cash balance pension plan conversions .  the bill represents a step back from the administration 's legislative proposal , which would eliminate wearaway ( both normal and early retirement ) and provide transition rules to protect some benefits for current workers .  the recently passed senate bill includes similar protections .  the current legislation clearly fails to recognize the need for transition rules to protect promised benefits and fails to protect the most vulnerable older , longer service workers .  h.r. 2830 would not only lower the bar for transition protections for older workers set in the administration proposal , but would lower it substantially below the `` best practices '' followed by companies involved in conversions over the past few years .  many employers -- recognizing the harm to older workers -- have adopted transition rules , such as the choice to remain under the old plan formula , or have `` grandfathered '' older , longer service workers under the traditional plan .  as recent reports by both the general accounting office and aarp confirm , most employers have adopted transition practices designed to protect the benefits that older and longer serving employees have earned .  any legislation should ensure these protections for older workers , not undercut them .  2 .  investment advice aarp shares the committee 's goal of increasing access to investment advice for individual account plan participants , but we oppose the elimination of the conflict-of-interest protection .  the approach advanced in this bill would , for the first time , permit plans to provide advice subject to inherent financial conflicts .  this is inconsistent with the employee retirement income security act 's ( erisa ) longstanding protections for plan participants .  while we agree that individualized advice can be helpful , such advice must be subject to erisa 's fiduciary rules , be based on sound investment principles , and be protected from conflicts of interest .  h.r. 2830 would turn back the clock and replace erisa 's prohibition on conflicts of interest with a weak disclosure model -- an inappropriate and unnecessary step given today 's marketplace .  over half of existing plans already provide investment advice to their employees through financial institutions and firms that do not have a financial conflict .  in fact , most large financial service providers have already developed alliances with independent advisors to make such advice available .  rather than permit advice subject to financial conflict , congress should encourage more employers to provide independent advice by addressing the key barrier -- employer liability .  potential employer liability is by far the most important reason that advice is not offered .  congress should clarify that the employer would not be liable for specific investment advice so long as the employer undertook due diligence in selecting and monitoring the independent advice provider .  it is in the best interest of both the plan and participants to enhance the independent advice market , and we urge congress to adopt this approach .  aarp urges you to stand with us in opposition to these critical provisions in h.r. 2830 in order to provide protections for older workers that are necessary , reasonable and fair , and to ensure that employers provide quality investment advice without the potential for conflict .  if there are additional questions or you need further information , please feel free to call me or have your staff contact frank toohey at ( 202 ) 434-3760 .  i can say why do you bring most of the bills that you bring to the floor that i think adversely impact american workers , from repealing worker protections and worker benefits .  mr. speaker , on that i demand the yeas and nays .  mr. speaker , i rise in strong opposition to the pension protection act of 2005 .  this act does not protect the american worker .  in fact , this bill places the future of today 's american worker in jeopardy .  even worse , this bill places those who have put in the years and worked hard at the mercy of bad management decisions .  furthermore , pensions are a financial safety net that many americans and businesses pay into .  pension programs are an important factor when workers choose a job and it plays a large part in financial planning .  many people go their entire career thinking they will have this money upon retirement and regularly contribute even when they could use the money to take their family on vacation or buy their children clothes .  instead , they place earnings into their pensions as much in the short run as they will need in the future .  pension plans are as much about personal responsibility as they are about good financial planning .  the american worker 's pension should not be a pawn for businesses to navigate bankruptcy .  i am especially concerned about the adverse affect this bill has on women .  as a member on the aviation subcommittee and a frequent flyer , i have worked for years with airlines and flight attendants .  many , many airline employees are women .  many of those women are single mothers .  without a guaranteed source of retirement income , it is almost impossible for these women to stay in the employ of the airlines -- and worse yet , many of these women have already put in years of hard work and have already lost upwards of 75 percent of their pensions .  mr. speaker , my office has received a towering pile of heartbreaking letters from people whose pensions have been lost .  how do we as members of congress tell these people that after all these years of paying into a pension -- working toward a retirement -- they have to make other plans for their golden years .  we have an opportunity to do some real good .  we have an opportunity to strengthen the commitment between the employers and workers , however this bill further drives a wedge between the two .  vote no against this bill today and let us pledge to come back during the second session of the 109th congress and do this right .  we owe it to the american people to take their financial future as seriously as they do .  vote no on the pension protection act of 2005 .  madam speaker , i yield myself 5 minutes .  madam speaker , when we are starting to deal with the pension plans that protect america 's retirements , one of the things we should do is to make a decision not to do any harm .  but the fact of the matter is that this bill makes things worse in many ways for many pensioners in this country and many future pensioners .  first and foremost , we created the pension benefit guaranty corporation to be there to protect some of the retiree benefits of people if pension plans went bust or the corporations went bust .  we are now told that this legislation makes that problem worse .  the speaker who was just in the well said there was some $ 23 billion in deficit in that plan .  and what we now see is a pension benefit guaranty corporation , the congressional budget office tells us that this makes it at least $ 9 billion worse over the next decade .  so while we narrow the deficit , in fact we see that we increase this agency 's deficit problems .  this is an agency that can look out into the future and can see up to $ 100 billion of liabilities possibly coming their way .  maybe some of them will not come because of this bill , but many of them will come because of this bill , because this bill , in fact , makes it easier , makes it easier to terminate plans .  it makes it easier to put plans into bankruptcy .  it certainly does not make it any more difficult to put into bankruptcy as we saw with united airlines .  so what does that mean ?  that means that a plan that was designed , an insurance policy that was designed for when companies went out of business , now companies can take their pension plans , the retirement nest eggs of their workers , and put them into bankruptcy , and the company can go merrily on its way .  i do not choose that term lightly , `` merrily on its way , '' because after what we saw after years and decades of manipulating the pension plans of united airlines , about not being truthful with the employees , not being truthful with the public , not being truthful with the shareholders about their liabilities , they put them into bankruptcy .  those workers had given back billions of dollars in wage concessions , retirement concessions to try to keep that airline afloat .  they were not able to because they went into bankruptcy .  yesterday , we learned that the top executives of that corporation have now petitioned the court to distribute $ 235 million in stock to those very same executives that ran this corporation into the ground , that they are going to get $ 235 million in stock .  the employees who had all of the concessions , all of the cutbacks , the employees are going to be required to service , maintain , run and staff those airlines , start all over , having fallen and been cast to the floor .  that is what is wrong with this legislation .  it treats those in the corporate suites entirely differently than it takes care of the workers on the shop floor or on the airlines or in the repair facilities .  that is the problem with it is that we see that this plan simply does not provide the kinds of protections necessary , the kinds of protections that are necessary for those employees who have worked so terribly long for those corporations , who invested their entire lives in these corporations .  plus the fact that it also makes it , and we are told by a number of the employer groups , this is what makes it more likely that the companies will terminate their plans , that they will freeze their plans .  what does that mean ?  that means a lots of people who may be 50 , 55 years old today , just as we found out with the cash balance plans , this makes it easier to do a cash balance , a lot of people who are working today are going to find out that they will not have a retirement nest egg that they have been planning on .  they will not be able to carry out the standard of living that they were anticipating to provide for their families .  that is what this legislation does .  it makes those kinds of decisions much easier , much easier for the companies to do that .  what does that mean ?  that means that america is going to end up with a poorer retired population than they had before .  that means that these people are going to have less of the kind of retirement that they had anticipated because of the acceleration of the terminations , because of the acceleration of the freezing of the plans and because of the ease which you can now go and apparently the acceptability in the business community of entering bankruptcy .  we changed the personal bankruptcy laws in this congress because we said people were using it as a convenience .  it is interesting now that the corporations have decided they will use it as a convenience to redesign themselves , to reconfigure themselves , to reinvent themselves .  if united airlines is the model , the only losers will be the workers and the retirees in those corporations .  that is what this legislation does not do .  it does not really speak to trying to make sure that we could do all that we can to secure the retirement of current workers and of future retirees .  i would urge my colleagues to vote against this legislation when we get to that vote and understand that we should not be making the problems of america 's pensioners even worse than they are today .  madam speaker , we are facing a serious pension crisis that has already cost employees across the nation billions of dollars in lost benefits -- benefits they were told were ironclad .  if you calculate just the losses employees suffered in the nation 's four largest pension terminations it exceeds $ 6 billion in earned defined benefit promises .  let 's be clear what is happening to our retirement system -- this enron the sequel .  this is enron 2 with a vengeance .  this is a national disgrace .  this bill does absolutely nothing about companies who decide to use the federal government to dump and run on their promises to employees .  exploiting loopholes in our pension and bankruptcy laws , clever lawyers have turned a federal agency that was supposed to be a last resort for companies that were closing shop , into a dumping ground for companies to ditch unwanted promises to reward investors at the expense of employees and taxpayers .  so powerful is this gaping hole in our pension protections , companies can now exact major wage and benefit concession by merely threatening to terminate their pension plan .  folks , if you want help fast forward to the new wal-mart economy -- this is your bill .  if you want to further weaken employees ' hand in the battle for fair wages and benefits , this is your bill .  if you want to stand by and watch as companies freeze , downgrade or drop their pension plans , this is your bill .  last summer thousands of united airline employees -- mechanics , flight attendants , and pilots -- lost billions in irreplaceable pension savings that changed their lives forever .  these families -- denied the courtesy of even a single hearing before the education and workforce committee -- participated in an online hearing democrats sponsored .  over 1 , 000 participated in this unique online hearing and their powerful voices were heard .  they wrote to us about the personal and financial devastation resulting from the loss of promised benefits , and the lost opportunity to earn future benefits .  listen to kenneth schmidt , a long-time employee of united from goodyear , az , who wrote : dear congressmen , i had worked for united for 38 years when i retired in february of 2003 .  my job as a mechanic was always a source of pride to me .  i worked midnights for many years , with doing so i missed out on many family gatherings , holidays , etc .  this was what i chose to do in life , and i did it with no complaints .  but , now i am faced with large cuts to my retirement benefits .  my retirement should be a time of taking it easy , traveling , and enjoying my `` golden years '' .  if this cut happens both my wife and i will be forced to reenter the work world , probably full time , if our medical insurance is also affected .  this is a sad time in this country for all the workers who are relying on a pension to ease their lives , and make this time relaxing , and enjoyable .  the stress that is being created by this turn in events is not healthy for anyone .  please try and help all retirees , and future retirees out of this most unfortunate set of troubles .  guess what this bill says to kenneth schmidt and the millions of future ken schmidt 's who have suffered from broken pension promises : too bad , tough luck .  you 're on your own .  how can it be that tens of thousand of united airlines employees like ken schmidt lose billions of dollars in promise benefits , and we do nothing ?  for example , we all know that united airlines was permitted to terminate its flight attendants plans without ever having to show it was necessary to continue operating the company .  the plan was terminated despite the testimony of a government hired economist who concluded the united plan was affordable and should be continued .  this bill does nothing for them .  the democratic substitute -- denied by the republican leadership -- would have restored the united plan until the company showed it could n't afford it .  this bill does nothing for thousands of pilots whose benefits are cut by half or more by the federal government when a plan is terminated .  when a plan is taken over by the pbgc after termination by its sponsor , the pbgc is required by law to impose a heavy penalty of those who retire at age 60 -- even airline pilots who are forced to retire at age 60 under federal law .  our substitute fixes this injustice and allows pilots to get the same maximum pbgc benefit other workers receive .  h.r. 2830 rejects the senate bill provisions that provide urgent relief to companies like delta and northwest airlines so these companies do n't terminate their plans .  our democratic substitute includes this urgently needed relief .  if you want to let the hard-earned pensions of airline employees across the nation crumble into a heap of broken promises like united and usairways , this is your bill .  mr. chairman , the sponsors of h.r. 2830 have referred to it as a `` pension reform bill. '' they say it will reform the pension benefits guaranty corporation that 's already $ 23 billion in the red and going up .  and they say it will turn around $ 450 billion in underfunding reported by the nation 's pension plans .  in truth , this bill not only fails to tackle pension reform , it actually hastens the unraveling of the pbgc and defined benefit plans .  here is what the congressional budget office says about this bill : `` h.r. 2830 would actually increase the pbgc 's 10 year net costs by $ 9 billion , or by about 14 percent compared to with what it would be under current policy. '' the pbgc found the same -- that h.r. 2830 would mean billions more red ink to its agency over current law .  how can a bill be reforming a system if it is increasing the pbgc 's red ink over current law ?  it ca n't , and that 's why this bill is a sham .  this bill also repeals two long-standing , bedrock protections for employees that , if permitted to pass , will haunt employees for years to come .  first , this bill overrides discrimination laws against older , existing workers for cash balance plans without any transition protections .  it means that older workers will face up to what the gao calculated would be up to a 50 percent cut in their benefits .  these angry constituents will be calling the offices of members of congress in droves -- just like thousands of ibm employees who spent years seeking to rectify deep cuts in pension benefits from a cash balance conversion .  they will ask why congress permitted companies to slash their benefits with no transition protections , no option to stay in the traditional plans , with no legal recourse .  tough luck to them , according to h.r. 2830 .  by contrast , the bipartisan senate bill has significant protections for older workers , but this bill rejects them all .  this bill is also larded up with lots of special interest perks , but none as pernicious as the repeal of the longstanding prohibition on conflicted investment advice .  federal pension law has always required investment advice to employees to be on the level -- free from self-interested , tainted financial advice .  no more .  this bill gives a sweetheart deal to investment houses by allowing them to offer conflicted investment advice to employees so long as they disclose to them that fix is in .  and of course , it ignores years of mutual fund financial scandals involving padded fees and commissions , secret market timing , late trading , and more uncovered by the sec , elliot spitzer , and other state attorneys general .  here is what arthur levitt , former sec chairman , says about the boehner/thomas investment advice provision .  ... ..  i have reservations when ... ..  advice comes from the very same mutual fund company whose products are for sale to a plans participants .  oneof my bedrock principles of investing is that advice should come from mutual parties with no axe to grind .  financial journalist jane bryant quinn and ny attorney general elliot spitzer have also expressed strong opposition to this change .  it 's amazing that we do n't lift a finger for the ken schmidts of the world , but we pull out all the stops to reverse a 30-year bedrock protection for employees for mutual funds and investment firms ' lobbyists .  by contrast , the senate bill does not include this repeal and goes further to actually strengthen the independent advice employees receive .  this bill does nothing to ensure fair treatment between workers and executives .  under this bill , if an employer does not fund its pension plan above 80 percent , then the workers get punished by benefit limits .  what 's the penalty for the executives who ran the plan down between 60 percent and 80 percent ?  zero ?  if an employer does not fund above 60 percent , the bill requires more benefits limits for workers .  for executives , only a weak provision for new executive compensation , with loopholes that allow the companies to promise future golden parachutes .  this bill does n't reform our pensions ; it actually hastens the pension crisis according to two independent federal agencies .  rather than encouraging companies to keep their defined benefit plan in place , it encourages companies to freeze , downgrade or drop their pension plans altogether .  it gives the green light to companies who want to dump and run , and opens new loopholes for mutual funds to steer employees into investments that feather their own nests at the expense of employees .  it overrules age discrimination laws to slash the pensions of older workers and other existing employees .  and it launches new , punishing benefit cuts for employees of underfunded pension plans , while letting the very executives who ran the company and the pension plan into the ground off the hook .  and it does nothing to address the urgent crisis of our airline companies and employees -- where jobs and the hard-earned retirement benefits of hundreds of thousands of americans hang in the balance .  i urge you to oppose this bill .  madam speaker , i reserve the balance of my time .  mr. speaker , i yield myself 3 minutes .  mr. speaker , when united airlines announced it was going to go into bankruptcy , the democratic members of the committee on education and the workforce planned an e-hearing so those people who were most affected by the termination of that plan and the bankruptcy of that company would have an opportunity to talk to their representatives in congress .  we were not going to have a hearing on this problem , and these people could not come to washington and testify .  so we opened up the internet to them , and we received thousands of replies from people telling us their life stories .  the amazing thing about it was how many of these people were using their retirement to care for another member of their family .  it could be a spouse with an illness , it could be a child , a grandchild , and all of a sudden , half of their pensions were evaporated into the bankruptcy of united airlines .  mr. kenneth schmidt , a long-time employee of united from goodyear , arizona , wrote , `` dear congressman , i had worked at united for 38 years when i retired in february of 2003 .  my job as a mechanic was always a source of pride to me .  i worked midnights for many years , and in doing so , i missed many of my family gatherings and holidays .  this was what i chose to do in life , and i did it with no complaints .  but now i am faced with large cuts in my retirement benefits .  my retirement should be a time for taking it easy , traveling and enjoying my `golden years. ' if this cut happens , both my wife and i will be forced to reenter the work world , probably full time if our medical insurance is also affected .  this is a sad time in this country for all the workers who are what the problem is is that this legislation does nothing for the kenneth schmidts of the world , he and his family .  it does nothing to keep companies from simply making a business decision that they can throw the company into bankruptcy , get rid of the retirement and health care obligations to retirees and move along .  this is not some unusual practice to bring shame upon a company .  the steel companies did it .  the airlines have done it .  there is a question of whether the automobile industry will go this way .  it is really not completely about their pensions .  it is about a decision of a business plan .  it is about competition and a change in the marketplace .  but the fact of the matter is that , at the end of the day , there is no showing .  united did not have to show that for these pension plans they would be a solvent company .  in fact , the people from the pbgc wrote and said that they thought the flight attendant plan could be salvaged , and in fact , maybe the others could .  but the decision was made and they went into bankruptcy without a hearing on that issue .  companies should have to exhaust all of their attempts to try to save the retirement plans of these americans , these people who have worked hard .  remember , these pension plans , they traded pay .  they traded health care benefits .  they traded vacation days for this pension plan .  that was the agreement and the guarantee .  now , unilaterally , the company gets up and walks away from it .  and to rub salt into their wounds , there were pilots required by the laws of this nation to retire earlier .  they take an additional hit on their pension because they are early retirees , not because they wanted to stop flying but because the law says they have to retire .  so we have pension plans that could have been salvaged and people who are being punished because of the federal law in terms of their early retirements , and this bill does nothing to fix that .  we do that in our motion to recommit .  we address the concerns of the flight attendants .  we address the concerns of the early retirees , and we address the concerns of the airlines , but it does not do that in the majority bill because they want to go off and use those people as trading chips , the retirement nest eggs of these hardworking americans , in the conference committee .  i urge members to vote against this legislation .  yes , i am , mr. speaker , in its present form .  mr. speaker , we offer this motion to recommit to address a number of issues that are not addressed in the legislation before us and to hopefully not do some of the things that the legislation before us does .  we believe that we can do these things without driving employers out of the defined benefit system .  the current bill before us provides a compilation of interest rates and premium fees and costs that we believe will drive employers to accelerate the termination and freezing of these plans .  that is not because we say it ; that is what the employers have told one another in their associations , the expectation that some 60 percent of the employers will freeze or terminate their plans .  we believe that our motion to recommit does not impose arbitrary benefit cuts and freezes on workers who do not control whether or not the employers fund the pension plans or not .  the motion to recommit would require companies to seek alternatives to the termination and prove that a plan is in fact unaffordable before they can cast it away in bankruptcy , as we saw united airlines do , that cost the employees billions of dollars in pension benefits .  importantly , the motion to recommit would actually help the employees of american , continental , delta and northwest airlines , whose pension plans are in danger of being terminated .  the bill before us does not do that .  it talks about doing that in the future .  the motion to recommit would also protect 9 million workers who are covered by multi-employer pension plans in the construction , food service and transportation industries .  we would ensure that workers and executives would be affected equally in pension plans .  again , the horrible demonstration out of united airlines , as the executives walked away with $ 235 million in a new , debt-free company and the employees walked away with wage cuts and benefits cuts and the loss of retirement benefits .  finally , the motion to recommit would help workers who do not have access to defined benefit plans through the automatic enrollment in 401 ( k ) plans and the expanded savers credit .  this legislation , if it is not corrected , is the greatest assault on the pension benefits and the retirement nest eggs of hardworking , middle class americans in the history of this congress .  i say that because it is quite clear that this will expedite and will accelerate the freezing and the termination of these plans that so many millions of americans are relying on .  one thing this legislation will do , if you want to continue to debate social security , you will now prove with the passage of this legislation that social security is the most secure retirement system in this country , that it is the only one that people can count on , because these other plans are in jeopardy .  mr. speaker , on that i demand the yeas and nays .  mr. speaker , as the consumer listens to this debate , one of the things i believe that they want to understand is that the advocates of this legislation , they are the ones that , just a year ago , were trying to privatize the social security system .  they wanted to privatize the social security system .  that should not be dismissed .  so this bill is now shuttled to the floor , barely a word of consideration in the ways and means committee , and the republicans on the rules committee would not grant us the opportunity to offer an alternative .  pensions , like social security , should be sacred between the employer and the employee .  there are few things that matter more than long-term security and a guaranteed pension .  now , let me give you the schedule of the ways and means committee .  we found days to discuss a free trade agreement with bahrain , days to hear testimony about bahrain , a country with 700 , 000 people .  and then we took months and months and months , as they attempted to privatize social security .  we spent a disproportionate amount of time , after the american people said , and the wall street journal poll today , by the way , indicates quite clearly how they felt about their privatization plan of social security .  boy , is that clear .  i will bet you on the other side everybody has read that poll by now .  that was a terrible idea , and this is a terrible idea .  so where do we find ourselves ?  this legislation will do more harm than it will do good .  the committee on investment of employee benefit assets , a group that represents chief investment officers from the larger corporations in the country , recently conducted their own survey and concluded that if this were to pass , 60 percent of those employers would either freeze or terminate their pension plans .  everybody knows the most robust debate in america next year is going to take place over retirement security .  reject this legislation .  madam speaker , i thank the gentleman for yielding me this time .  madam speaker , i see the chairman of the committee on education and the workforce is in the chamber .  i want to give him initially a compliment .  that committee has had a number of hearings .  i believe the gentleman has wrestled with this issue , and i believe he has come up with a deeply flawed solution , but i give him credit for an initial effort .  now on the other hand the chairman deserves much rebuke for tolerating the process that is unfolding here .  madam speaker , getting pension funding fixed , getting this done correctly is a technically exacting proposition with enormous risks because if we miss the mark , pension plans are going to terminate .  pension plans are going to freeze .  millions of workers will lose their pension coverage .  this is not a republican thing , it is not a democrat thing .  trying to get this right ought to be a shared purpose , and so how dare you participate in a process that does not give us a substitute ?  your way is not the only reasonable way .  reasonable minds differ here .  there are issues that we put forward in our substitute that were important for consideration by this body .  the legislative process ought to be run with a fundamental fairness that allows the consideration of various issues .  there are a lot of important constituencies watching this debate , and i want them to know that the chairman of the committee on education and the workforce complicit with the chairman of the ways and means committee complicit with the majority leadership of this body worked to shut down the process , to shut out the consideration of other views , to present only their way or the highway as an ultimate resolution of this issue .  i firmly believe that healthy pension plans today will terminate or freeze their benefits for other workers going forward , because i believe this is a deeply flawed proposal , and i know there has been an effort to pick a group here and pick a group there and make a compromise here and make a compromise there , but the core of the bill is rotten and we could have had a much better result .  shame on you for depriving us of our alternative .  defeat this rule .  mr. speaker , there are two major problems with this bill .  the first is that it costs $ 70 billion and the costs are not paid for , not offset anywhere .  it drives the deficit deeper .  last week , this chamber voted to deal with the amt 1-year fix , $ 31 billion .  the majority voted to pass a budget reconciliation that added another $ 56 billion in deficit .  this adds an additional $ 70 billion in deficit .  $ 177 billion in deeper deficits .  you know , it is christmastime .  people are thinking what to give their children .  well , the majority seems intent on giving them quite a present indeed , $ 177 billion deeper deficit going on top of $ 8 trillion of debt .  the second aspect of this bill that i want to point out is that it is deeply flawed pension policy , and it will cause the cancellation , freezing of thousands of plans affecting millions of workers .  do not take my word for it .  this is the estimate of the chief investment officers in an organization known as civa .  they estimate that if this bill passes , 60 percent of the plans will freeze .  frozen plans mean frozen benefits .  and we do not know , the rest may freeze as well .  they conclude : `` these proposals would have long-term consequences for current and future workers with the potential to damage the retirement security of millions of americans. '' potential to damage the retirement security of millions of americans .  we have seen this story before .  this is a group that worked for months to privatize social security , take away that monthly dependable income our seniors enjoy .  well , they failed on that one .  now they are after pensions , and without question this will dismantle pensions in the very same way they tried to dismantle social security .  now , several groups are for this bill .  why ?  well , airlines are so desperate for a fix they are arguing for this bill even though it has no provisions for airlines .  i was stunned when the chairman announced in a colloquy his lines of communication are open .  well , mr. chairman , people have been calling .  airlines have been calling .  hello .  advocates for airlines , worrying about their workers have been calling .  hello , northwest airlines has been calling .  hello .  delta airlines , calling .  hello .  no answer .  no answer from the majority .  and so someone that supports an airline urged to vote for this bill when the provision is utterly left out , it makes no sense .  you do not help airlines with this proposal .  the democrats had an alternative that had airline relief in it .  it was not even allowed for consideration .  you think you are going to be treated fairly in conference committee .  the administration opposes airline relief .  the chairman has spoken out against airline relief .  there is nothing in the bill for airline relief .  they are hoping against hope that something will be done .  they deserve so much more than that .  i believe that this bill is deeply flawed pension policy .  it will hurt workers .  vote `` no . '' madam speaker , i yield myself such time as i may consume .  my colleagues , i do not know how the majority gets away with what they do .  i do not think that their legislative initiatives are just for the legislation , but rather to do away with traditions that have existed under democrat administrations .  if you have an immigration problem , lock up the immigrants and lock up the employers .  if you have a health problem , then get rid of medicaid and medicare and let the private sector resolve the problems .  if you have a prescription drug problem and you want to subsidize that and help out the older people , do not let the federal government do it .  give the money to the private sector ; let them compete and let them do it .  the social security system , if people have relied on their government when they get older or disabled , do not let the government be involved .  get some private accounts and let them do it .  now we are talking about how well the economy is doing : plants are closing ; people are fearful of losing their jobs ; pension plans are going busted ; and , really , people do not feel nearly as good as the republicans and the president think .  now we have a bill before us where these pension plans would be a heck of a lot better if we did nothing , rather than do the harm that we are about to do to them .  the demands that are going to be made on employers to reach sometimes the increase of 240 percent in making contributions to these plans will cause many of them to drop the plan and go into bankruptcy .  the whole idea of how much revenue we are going to lose , some $ 70 billion , is not even an issue , if at the end of the day enough sweetheart nips and tucks were given to a handful of people so that we would be assured that the days of defined benefit pensions are just about over .  some people will have to make political choices today in terms of support of this because there are some vested interest people that need short-gain satisfaction .  but at the end of the day , the same way people regret their votes for the gulf of tonkin resolution , they will have to come back and ask did they do more damage than good on today .  if you look at actuaries and people who have studied this , they realize that so few pensions are now protected by the pbgc , and in the future many less will be protected .  so , madam speaker , these bills are not brought up just to become law .  many of the bills that are coming to this floor are brought to see which people are going to vote against the title of the bill and pay a price for that at the polls , or whether some are secure enough to vote against the substance of the bill that in the long term is going to adversely affect our workers .  at this time with the house permission , i would like to turn the balance of my time over to congressman ben cardin from maryland who has spent a lot of time on pensions and can share with the house the pitfalls that we have in this bill before the house today .  mr. speaker , i rise to urge my colleagues to vote `` yes '' on this important piece of legislation for several reasons .  paramount , it will help an industry that badly needs our help at a very critical time , and the only way we can help the airline industry is to get it into conference .  there are a lot of things that may be right with this bill , there a lot of things that may be wrong with this bill , but the only answer and the logical and most responsible thing that we need to do is to vote `` yes '' and send the bill to conference , allow the process to work .  i appreciate mr. miller  who has worked very diligently with me and understands my concerns .  i represent an area that has probably more airline employees maybe than any other district .  i represent delta airlines .  we all know that delta airlines is in a bankruptcy fight , fighting for its very life ; and the two most critical issues that they need help on is doing something to lower the high cost of fuel , which we have problems with and how we can do it .  there are all kinds of questions .  but there is one thing we can do , and that is to help them with relief of their pension plans .  so i urge my colleagues to vote `` yes '' on this important legislation .  mr. speaker , this is a comprehensive pension reform bill that will protect workers ' retirement incomes , give companies a longer window to make underfunded plans whole , and will help protect u.s. taxpayers from taking on the liability associated with future plan terminations .  now i 'm asking your help to help my people in georgia .  one area that remains to be addressed in conference are major airlines ' pension plans .  delta air lines employs thousands of men and women in my district who rely now or plan to rely in whole or in part on retirement benefits provided by delta .  without a change in current law that allows delta and other air carriers that have defined benefit plan obligations , like northwest , continental and american , to make their pension payments over a longer period of time -- 20 years -- it 's certainly a possibility that some or all of these plans will be terminated , benefits reduced and liability shifted to the taxpayer .  these carriers want to honor their obligations , but need to be equipped with the tools to have a fighting chance to do so .  and getting this pension bill to conference is our only hope .  although we are not addressing this specific need today , i strongly support continued pursuit in conference of an airline specific provision similar to that passed by the senate , extending the payment period for these carriers to 20 years .  help us get this bill to conference .  let 's help delta and all the airlines who need our help so much .  i want to thank chairman boehner for your hard work in making this reform bill a reality , and look forward to working with the conferees .  mr. speaker , i rise again in support of this important legislation .  i wanted to get down to this , well , to kind of deal with some specifics as to why it is important that we move this bill on over into conference .  first of all , this is a comprehensive pension reform bill that will protect workers ' retirement incomes .  it will give companies a longer window to make underfunded plans whole , and it will help protect u.s. taxpayers from taking on the liability associated with future plan terminations .  as i mentioned before , delta airlines employs thousands of men and women in my district , and other airlines , in many of your districts throughout this country , rely now or plan to rely in whole or in part on retirement benefits provided by delta .  without a change in current law , that will allow delta and other airline carriers that have defined benefit plans and obligations , like northwest , continental and american , to make their pension payments over a longer period of time , 20 years , then it is a certainty that some or all of these plans will be terminated .  benefits will be reduced , and liabilities will be shifted to the taxpayer .  we have an opportunity with this vehicle today to make sure that does not happen .  we do not need to extend this liability over to the taxpayers .  these employers and airline carriers want to honor their obligations , their pensions , but they need our help .  they need to be equipped with the tools just to have a fighting chance to do so .  mr. speaker , let us give our airlines this fighting chance .  i know that is not the main item on the agenda , but this is the only vehicle we have that we can use in conference to fix the situation .  i urge members to give us a chance so we can help a very important industry .  mr. speaker , i rise today in strong opposition to h.r. 2830 , which would be better titled the republican pension destruction act .  american workers deserve much better than a bill that will reduce employee pensions and provide incentives for employers to break pension promises to employees .  recent bankruptcies in the airline industry shed a bright light on exactly what big corporations are up to .  a few months ago , united airlines dumped its flight attendant pension program onto the pension benefit guaranty corporation ( pbgc ) -- a government organization meant to serve as an insurance policy for corporations who can no longer afford to meet their pension obligations .  the pbgc , however , does not fund pensions at 100 percent , instead making a reduced payment to retired employees .  as a result , tens of thousands of united employees , past and present , will receive smaller pension payments than they deserve .  unbelievably , in the same bankruptcy proceedings united airline 's ceo glen tilton was allowed to keep his $ 4.5 million pension .  this is unacceptable , and the bill offered today does nothing to prevent ceos from opening these golden parachutes while their employees are forced to take a reduction in their benefits .  i 've heard from hundreds of constituents on this issue .  i ca n't say it any better than this former united employee from hayward , ca who made the following statement during an e-hearing i have been co-hosting regarding the united airlines crisis .  `` i worked for united airlines 35 years as a mechanic .  two years ago i retired with the promise that my pension was safe .  if i lose a big chunk of pension i will have to sell my house and take my almost blind wife to another state where it 's cheaper to live .  away from our doctors and family .  i am not able to work anymore -- physically unable -- can you help us ?  `` we could help united employees and the retirement security of millions of americans by passing real pension reform , but republicans would rather destroy pensions instead of protecting them .  when democrats offered legislation to fix the pension solvency issue by protecting retirees and forcing ceos to be held accountable , the republican majority would n't bring it up for a vote because it could have passed .  sadly , this is just one more example of republicans siding with corporate campaign donors instead of working americans .  the list of problems associated with this bill is seemingly endless .  the pbgc itself says its own ability to cover pensions will decrease by $ 2.5 billion under this bill .  the republican bill does nothing to protect airline employees .  and in a final slap in the face to hardworking taxpayers , the bill adds $ 71 billion to the deficit over the next 10 years , because republicans refuse to be fiscally responsible and pay for their reforms .  this republican pension bill undermines retirement security and puts the once guaranteed pension benefits of millions of hard working americans in jeopardy .  i urge all my colleagues to vote `` no '' on this bill .  mr. speaker , i rise today in opposition to h.r. 2830 .  i am old enough to remember a time when everyone on my block in the glen park section of gary , indiana had a pension .  the defined benefit pension system today , which protects the retirement security of over 44 million workers , retirees , and their families , is at a critical juncture .  the number of defined benefit plans has declined from over 100 , 000 in 1985 to under 32 , 000 in 2004 .  while the number of active workers covered by such plans has dropped from over 40 million to under 20 million , an additional 20 million retirees depend on defined benefit plans for their retirement security .  both the congressional budget office and the pension benefit guaranty corporation have found that h.r. 2830 will add billions more to the pbgc 's already mounting deficit .  according to the cbo , this legislation would increase the pbgc 's deficit by $ 9 billion dollars over the next ten years .  the pbgc is already facing a deficit of $ 23 billion and could face additional liabilities of up to $ 100 billion in the near future .  in the five years leading up to the closings of ltv and bethlehem steel , steel companies in north america were filing for bankruptcy in record numbers , using the bankruptcy courts to break their contractual obligations and impose cuts or outright elimination of jobs , benefits , pensions and wages of steelworkers .  in 2000 , ltv steel filed for chapter 11 bankruptcy for protection from its creditors , including its obligations to its pension plan .  in 2002 , ltv filed section 7 bankruptcy , which liquidated its assets .  today 's legislation would put additional pressure on an agency that is already picking up the slack because corporate america has used them as a dumping ground .  in addition , h.r. 2830 does not ensure fair treatment between workers and executives .  the bill permits ceos to receive executive golden parachutes at the same time employees are suffering deep cuts in their promised retirement benefits .  under h.r. 2830 , if an employer does not fund its pension plan above 80 percent , then workers can not receive any increases in benefits or take a lump sum at retirement .  no similar restriction is imposed on executives .  if an employer does not fund above 60 percent , then the workers ' plan must be frozen with no new benefits allowed to accrue .  only at 60 percent are employers prohibited from transferring funds to executive compensation .  however , employers can get around this prohibition and make promises of future benefits to in closing mr. speaker , i urge my colleagues to oppose h.r. 2830 .  according to cbo , h.r. 2830 would increase the federal deficit by over $ 70 billion from 2006-2015 .  it contains a variety of unoffset tax incentives for corporate america that will not secure the pension of the hardworking men and women who are making our steel , mining our coal , building our homes , and flying our airplanes .  congress owes working americans more .  madam speaker , american workers know that a defined pension plan is a promise from their employer , a promise that , when they retire , they will receive a benefit they can rely on .  in fact , they have planned their retirement future on that promise .  this bill allows companies to break that promise .  it allows companies to switch midstream to cash balance plans , ignoring that promise to their workers .  these workers have trusted that this benefit will be there .  it will be there at the end of their service to a company .  in fact , these workers have quite often given up pay raises or other benefits for their retirement security .  these pension benefits have been earned .  they have been promised .  they must be honored .  actually , earlier this year , the republican majority tried but failed to destroy the social security system by going back on their promise to every american that at a certain age they would receive a defined benefit , a benefit they could count on .  americans overwhelmingly stood up to the republicans and said social security is ours , you promised it , we rely on it , you can not have it .  so the republican majority could not take social security away from americans with privatization .  now , they are trying to pull the rug out from under people who have dedicated their lives working hard for their companies .  madam speaker , these workers were promised defined retirement benefits .  they earned those benefits , and this congress can not allow companies to go back on their word .  we must ensure that these hardworking americans get the pension benefits they have been promised that they have earned .  i urge my colleagues to oppose h.r. 2830 .  protect american pensions .  mr. speaker , like the president 's wishful , staged declaration of `` mission accomplished '' on that aircraft carrier 2 1/2 years ago , or the vice president 's declaration that the insurgency was in its `` final throes , '' this resolution proclaims the desire of congress for `` victory '' in iraq .  instead of dispatching our troops in adequate numbers , this congress made one speech after another .  instead of covering our troops with adequate , impenetrable armor , this congress passed one paper resolution after another like this , which provided little shield from those who would do our brave men and women harm .  well , each day 's news shows how out of touch this administration and its congressional followers continue to be .  like the administration , this congress has no idea what victory means other than trying to escape the morass that its bad judgment got us into .  i believe that victory in iraq , which we all desire , begins with a commitment to championing the truth .  this is an administration that can not utter `` iraq '' without saying `` 9/11 , '' even though it knows there is absolutely no connection between the two .  to win a war you have to shoot straight .  our young men and women in iraq and afghanistan understand that , but this administration and its congressional followers demonstrate again and again that they do not -- when they are discussing the real weakness of the iraqi army or fail to do so , the strength of the insurgency , or the length our armed forces should be deployed .  they are so proud of the democratic choices made in iraq this week and so very fearful for there to be any democratic choices on the resolution of the gentleman from california ( mr. lantos )  and others .  they fear a democratic debate in this house because their position is one of complete weakness .  they have waved the white flag themselves at the possibility of a true debate in this congress .  what we need is a genuine debate about the best pathway for our security in iraq .  the president finally conceded over 30 , 000 civilians have died in this invasion .  we have passed 2 , 000 young , brave men and women in the service of america , and we are on the way to 3 , 000 .  this administration has begun a public relations offensive when what we need is an offensive for the protection of our families .  it has abandoned that in favor of a meaningless political victory , not a real plan for success for the security of our families .  has the president or your resolution been willing to declare that it rejects the idea of permanent bases in iraq ?  mr. speaker , given the stated interest in democracy here in the house , i would ask unanimous consent to amend the rule to permit for division of the question so that we could express our unanimous support for the various provisions of this resolution , except for that on which we have disagreement as to the best way to achieve success in iraq .  at this point , so that we can have the kind of democracy that occurred this week in iraq , of which the majority seems so proud , and actually have it right here on the floor of the house , i ask unanimous consent for a division of the question on the provisions of this resolution .  shocking , truly shocking , that democracy can not exist here on the house floor .  i thank my friend , the distinguished rules committee member from massachusetts , for yielding me time .  last night i made the statement in the rules committee that i would not participate in the debate .  i do not intend when the debate begins to have anything to say , and quite frankly if i had the wherewithal , i would ask my colleagues on the democratic side not to say anything as well .  but i do know a little bit now , having served on the rules committee for a little while , about closed rules , and i know when we have closed rules , we restrict democracy .  we come here to advocate for democracy in iraq , as rightly we should .  but i come this morning to advocate democracy for the members of the house of representatives who have a different point of view that needs to be heard regarding this important matter having to do with our nation .  like my friend and mentor , tom lantos , i feel that there will be division as a result of the resolution as filed .  i quite frankly am a bit surprised that so many people in the majority who argue that the war should not be politicized have done an act , although subtle and nuanced , that is as political as most things that we do here .  i do not decry politics .  that is what we do for a living .  but when it comes to this nation , we all have a responsibility to stand together .  there is no one in this congress that does not support the military of the united states in every aspect of what it has done .  there is no one in this congress that wants us to fail in achieving victory in iraq and anywhere that terror exists in this world .  we have a vested interest in that .  we have a natural right to pursue that particular interest .  but to fashion a resolution that ignores the language that mr. lantos  offered , that does precisely the same thing with civility all throughout it , i can not imagine that we have passed yet another closed rule and that we have restricted a sensible , civil resolution offered by mr. lantos , ms. pelosi , and mr. hoyer .  in that light , i consider it to be the kind of act that is seemingly becoming the pattern with so many people in this house who represent so many constituents who are not being heard .  mr. speaker , in 20 seconds i put to the chair a simple question : if this resolution is so simple and noncontroversial , why did it come through the rules committee ?  and is it not true that mr. lantos ' resolution is also simple , and there was nothing to preclude the committee on rules from hearing the lantos matter , had you chosen ?  and are you not the greatest exemplar of not having closed rules , mr. chairman ?  i thank the chairman for not answering my question .  mr. speaker , the odds of success in iraq are not enhanced by congress continuing to act as a rubber stamp for president bush .  we need a change in strategic vision in iraq .  this resolution says that setting a timetable somehow is a communist plot , but , in fact , the president himself set timetables in iraq when he set timetables to have transitional elections in iraq .  he set timetables for elections because it focused the iraqis to demand performance , and that is what we should do in setting a timetable to transition to iraqis true sovereignty for three reasons .  reason number one , we should no longer provide a crutch for an indefinite period of time to the iraqi politicians .  we need to focus their minds on making the compromises that are necessary if a real government is going to be followed .  we can not fall into the trap of enabling iraqi politicians to continue their bickering .  they need a solution .  number two , people say a timetable will encourage more violence .  let me ask you this : if there is a young unemployed man who is angry about foreign troops marching on his neighborhood , what do you think will make him more angry and more likely to plant an ied , the fact that we tell him we are going to leave in a year or so , or tell him we are going to stay there as long as george bush says so ?  we need to tell them that we are going to come home .  the third reason we ought to think about this is that in our briefings we have received , we have been told that the iraqi military will be fully trained by next december 2006 , and it is realistic , it is commonsense , it is a measure to focus the iraqi politicians on the necessity of seeking compromise , to say that we should begin transitioning next year and substantially conclude by december 2006 .  during that time i have one message for the administration .  they need to do a better job arming the iraqi military forces .  they need radios , they need humvees , they need logistics .  we can not allow that force to fall apart .  we need to defeat this resolution .  i thank my friend for yielding .  mr. speaker , i rise in sorrow , not in anger , because this morning could be a morning of unity and celebration and congratulations .  yesterday in unprecedented numbers the people of iraq rejected the threats and intimidation of the terrorists and chose a new permanent national parliament , the first fully sovereign , elected democratic assembly in the history of iraq .  this should be cause for celebration for the iraqi people , for our troops , the troops of our allies and the iraqi security forces who bravely protected the iraqi people who came out to vote .  unfortunately , the resolution before us does not do that , and that i deeply regret .  mr. speaker , we all know that there is a spectrum of views on my side of the aisle on how to deal with the difficult situation in iraq in the weeks and months ahead .  yesterday i was asked with a number of other democrats to go to the white house .  i sat next to the president as we talked about the possibility of building a united approach to this difficult dilemma .  but the leadership , in a rigid , unbending , almost ruthless fashion , refused to take one single word of change or modification in their resolution .  it was a take-it-or-leave-it proposal , which is inappropriate in a democratic legislative body where some of us have been attempting to operate in a bipartisan fashion .  i introduced a resolution and asked the rules committee to make it in order .  my resolution congratulates the iraqi people on three democratic national elections , encourages all americans to support the iraqi people , and commends our troops and those of our allies and the iraqi forces for protecting their people at election time .  that is the resolution which should be before us today .  we would get a unanimous vote , and we would send a message to our troops and to the whole world that congress is united .  instead , by rigidly demanding total adherence to the republican formula , there will be an ugly , divisive debate in this body this morning .  this is not in our national interest .  i wish to use the balance of my time to read the resolution that i believe ought to be before us , mr. speaker .  the text of my resolution is as follows : h. res. 613 whereas the people of iraq have consistently and courageously demonstrated their commitment to democracy by participating in three elections in 2005 ; & lt ; p & gt ; & amp ; nbsp ; & amp ; nbsp ; & amp ; nbsp ; whereas on january 30 , 2005 , the people of iraq participated in an election for a transitional national assembly ; & lt ; p & gt ; & amp ; nbsp ; & amp ; nbsp ; & amp ; nbsp ; whereas all segments of iraqi society actively participated in the approval of a new iraqi constitution through a referendum held on october 15 , 2005 ; & lt ; p & gt ; & amp ; nbsp ; & amp ; nbsp ; & amp ; nbsp ; whereas reports indicate that the people of iraq voted in unprecedented and overwhelming numbers in the most recent election , held on december 15 , 2005 , for a new , national parliament that will serve in accordance with the recently-approved iraqi constitution for a four-year term and that represents the first fully sovereign , elected democratic assembly in the history of iraq ; & lt ; p & gt ; & amp ; nbsp ; & amp ; nbsp ; & amp ; nbsp ; whereas this remarkable level of participation by the people of iraq in the face of dire threats to their very lives has won the admiration of the world ; & lt ; p & gt ; & amp ; nbsp ; & amp ; nbsp ; & amp ; nbsp ; whereas the iraqi elections could not have been conducted without the courage and dedication of the members of the united states armed forces and the armed forces of other nations in iraq , including the members of the security forces of iraq ; and & lt ; p & gt ; & amp ; nbsp ; & amp ; nbsp ; & amp ; nbsp ; whereas the december 15 , 2005 , election in iraq inspires confidence that a robust , pluralistic democracy that will bring stability to iraqi society is emerging : now , therefore , be it & lt ; p & gt ; & amp ; nbsp ; & amp ; nbsp ; & amp ; nbsp ; resolved , that the house of representatives -- & lt ; p & gt ; & amp ; nbsp ; & amp ; nbsp ; & amp ; nbsp ; ( 1 ) congratulates the people of iraq on the three national elections conducted in iraq in 2005 ; & lt ; p & gt ; & amp ; nbsp ; & amp ; nbsp ; & amp ; nbsp ; ( 2 ) encourages all americans to express support for the people of iraq in their efforts to achieve a free , open , and democratic society ; and ( 3 ) expresses its thanks and admiration to the members of the united states armed forces and the armed forces of other nations in iraq , including the members of the security forces of iraq , whose heroism permitted the iraqi people to vote safely. & lt ; p & gt ; there is n't a member in this body who could not subscribe to this .  this is not the time for an ugly and divisive debate .  and with its rigidity and total unwillingness to listen to half of this body , the majority has chosen to give us an ugly and divisive debate .  i would like to comment on your observation .  thank you for your courtesy .  thank you .  my good friend mr. dreier  suggested that there will not be a divisive debate this morning .  that divisive debate has already begun .  you need to listen to the words of what my colleagues are saying .  i attempted to avoid this divisive debate this morning .  i attempted at the end of this session to have this congress go home with a unanimous vote congratulating the iraqi people on what they have done ; congratulating our military , our allies and the iraqi forces for making it possible for them to vote .  there are divisions on policy , and it is an ostrich policy to pretend that there are no divisions .  i may agree with the gentleman 's view about a timetable .  that is not the issue .  the issue is that the last discussion of iraq in this body will show division , bitterness and divisiveness , and that could have been avoided with a little bit of flexibility and consideration on the part of the majority for the views of almost one-half of this body .  reclaiming my time , it is in the national interest to show the greatest degree of unity in this body , and your resolution does the opposite .  mr. speaker , i want to thank the gentleman from california ( mr. dreier )  , the chairman of our committee , for yielding me the customary 30 minutes , and i yield myself 7 1/2 minutes .  mr. speaker , last night and this morning , like all my colleagues , i watched the news reports about the parliamentary elections in iraq .  this is a proud day for the iraqi people , and it is fitting that this congress , this house of representatives , recognize the courage of the iraqi people , their desire to take control of their own destiny , and how much they have suffered to achieve this taste of democracy .  as has been stated by so many analysts in the news media , one of the most important outcomes of this election was the significant participation for the first time of iraqi sunnis in this election , many of whom , according to news reports , were encouraged to vote , escorted to the polls or guarded at the polls by armed iraqi insurgents .  everyone in the house of representatives is proud of the iraqi people .  everyone in this house respects the efforts made by our uniformed men and women to help the iraqi people get to this historic moment .  this house could have sent a strong unified message to the iraqi people , our troops in iraq , and to the international community in support of our troops and in support of the brave iraqi people .  but , mr. speaker , once again , as it has so often done in the past , this republican leadership has chosen to include controversial language in this resolution , knowing that it will provoke sharp and divisive debate over iraq .  rather than choosing to send a united message to the world , the republican leadership has cynically and deliberately decided to highlight our divisions rather than our unity .  late last night , the ranking member of the house international relations committee , one of the most respected leaders in this house on human rights , congressman tom lantos , came before the rules committee with a resolution that focused on congratulating the people of iraq for three successful elections conducted in iraq this year .  the resolution further praises our troops for their contributions to peace and stability in iraq .  and , mr. speaker , he was rejected out of hand .  shame on the majority to treat one of the most respected members of this body in such a fashion .  shame .  mr. speaker , there are many points of view in this house about how the u.s. should proceed in iraq .  even among the majority , there are differing points of view .  i for one believe these successful iraqi elections provide an opportunity for the united states to change course in iraq and begin bringing u.s. forces home .  as we pass the 1 , 000th day of the war in iraq , i believe we must begin the transition to putting the iraqis in charge .  after 3 years of war , the united states claims , for better or for worse , the elimination of saddam hussein from power , and that the united states has furthered the iraqi political process , culminating in the passage of a constitution and now the first democratic election and iraq 's first constitutional government .  at this point , plans for a full transfer of sovereignty to iraqis demands a change in course , one that puts iraqis in charge .  iraq ca n't move forward with 160 , 000 u.s. troops , the largest u.s. embassy in the world , and with iraqi public opinion behind a timetable for withdrawal .  mr. speaker , many years ago vermont senator george aiken said of the disastrous vietnam war that the united states should declare victory and go home .  well , the elections in iraq and the other milestones constitute a sufficient reason for the united states to declare that it has done all it can in iraq , and it is time to reverse the bush administration 's policies .  president bush 's unwillingness to announce a plan to remove u.s. troops within a clear time frame and his refusal to renounce the use of permanent u.s. military bases there undermines his rhetoric about iraqi democracy and will undermine the legitimacy of the new iraqi government .  our occupation of iraq complicates the transition to democracy .  former secretary of state madeleine albright had it right , mr. speaker , when she said last month that the united states can support democracy , but we can not impose democracy .  and it is a deadly combination when democracy is equated with occupation .  while the president continues to give speeches on the war , the american people have become disenchanted with the administration 's iraq policies and its failure to disclose a plan for withdrawal .  let us be clear , mr. speaker .  the president has a credibility gap when it comes to iraq .  according to a december 8 new york times/cbs poll , 59 percent of americans disapprove of the way president bush is handling the war in iraq , and 70 percent do not believe that he has developed a clear plan to get american troops out of iraq .  we have lost more than 2 , 100 soldiers dead and over 15 , 000 wounded , overstretched our military , placed our homeland and those of our allies at greater risk , and still this president persists in a useless quest for , quote , victory .  but excuse me , mr. speaker , just what is `` victory '' ?  who defines it ?  who decides when `` victory '' has been achieved in iraq ?  is it the iraqi people themselves ?  is it president bush , who has already declared `` mission accomplished '' ?  is it next year ?  or the year after that ?  or 5 years or 10 years down the road ?  is it when we have lost 3 , 000 troops in iraq ?  or 5 , 000 ?  or 10- ?  how many more american troops do we have to sacrifice ?  how many more iraqi lives must be sacrificed before we decide that while most iraqis are confident in yesterday 's parliamentary elections , two-thirds are opposed to the presence of u.s. troops , according to a poll released on december 12 by abc news and time magazine .  according to news reports , many of the sunnis turned out in such large numbers yesterday because they see it as a means to end the u.s. occupation of their country .  arab voices through the cairo process are helping change the dynamic in a positive way and are filling a role that the u.s. no longer needs to play .  the president must work with the united nations and iraq 's arab neighbors to develop an interim arrangement as american troops depart .  the best way to preserve the gains made so far is to commit to long-term financing for reconstruction , working with the new iraqi government to set a timetable for withdrawal , and to arrange for an over-the-horizon troop presence .  the bush administration and the republican leadership of this house should be spending less time on spin and speeches and more time on preparing for bringing american troops home .  the way out of iraq begins by genuine respect for the will of the iraqi people and their desire for u.s. military withdrawal from iraq .  the president can begin to demonstrate this respect by putting an end to the attempted manipulation of iraqi public opinion with fake news written by pentagon contractors , the unambiguous announcement that the u.s. will not maintain permanent military bases there , and the immediate initiation of a coherent plan for the withdrawal of our forces there .  this will not only give the vast majority of the iraqi people what they want , but the new iraqi government its strongest chance for success .  unlike what is stated in this resolution , there is nothing `` artificial '' about this approach .  congress , too , has a responsibility to take action where the bush administration falters .  today we should praise the iraqi people , but tomorrow this congress should move to must-pass legislation to force beginning to bring our forces home .  mr. speaker , i reserve the balance of my time .  mr. speaker , before i yield 1 minute to the gentleman from california ( mr. lantos )  to respond to what the chairman of the rules committee had said , let me make clear , nobody is talking about waving a white flag here .  what we are talking about is trying to figure out a way to make a bad situation less bad .  the polls have shown clearly that the majority of the iraqi people want us out of iraq .  when a majority wants something , they usually get what they want , because that is what a democracy is about .  we do n't know a lot about democracy in this house because we are routinely shut out of being able to have debates and votes on important issues .  but the bottom line is that those of us who are advocating that the president set some sort of a timetable are doing so because we think that that is a way to strengthen the situation , to give the new government over there a chance to succeed .  i do n't believe it can succeed if it is viewed as a puppet of the united states .  i do n't believe it can succeed with a huge u.s. occupation over there .  i do n't believe it can succeed with the largest u.s. embassy in the world over there .  i do n't believe it can succeed if those are the conditions .  mr. speaker , i yield myself 2 minutes .  mr. speaker , to suggest that the rules committee respects a deliberative process in this house or that it is somehow democratic or receptive to alternative ideas , i think demonstrates to me that the chairman has pretty low standards when it comes to being inclusive .  the bottom line is , on important issues , on important matters like this one , we are routinely shut out .  i mean , the chairman may be on board with what the president is doing in iraq , but there are many of us who have great concerns .  and the fact of the matter is , the section that is controversial in this bill deserves debate , not in the context of this resolution , but we should be on this floor debating this for a period of time and let everybody have their chance to present their viewpoint on what our policy should be in iraq .  we should be debating iraq almost every day .  i mean , we are at war .  we have lost 2 , 100 american servicemen and women ; 15 , 000 are wounded .  we have spent hundreds of billions of dollars , and we do not like to talk about it except in the context of these resolutions that kind of get dropped on us and brought to the floor ; and we are supposed to praise our troops , which we all do .  we want to congratulate the democratic voting in iraq , which we all do .  but then tucked into this is a provision which some of us find objectionable .  this administration has a credibility gap , in my opinion , when it comes to iraq .  we have been misled too often , and it is time to demand the truth .  it is not acceptable to embrace an open-ended u.s. policy toward iraq that suggests that we put all our faith in the president .  he has been wrong on everything .  there were no weapons of mass destruction .  there was no tie to al qaeda .  there was no imminent threat to the united states from iraq , and he rushed us into war .  he said we would be greeted as liberators .  here we are approaching the third year .  we are not greeted as liberators .  we are stuck in a mess .  mr. speaker , i will also point out to the chairman of the rules committee that if you read the front page of today 's washington post it says , `` iraqi vote draws big turnout of sunnis. '' underneath , subheadline , `` anti-u.s. sentiment is motivator for many. '' a majority of the people in iraq want us to begin the process of withdrawal ; and what you are asking us to do is to embrace a resolution that says we will be there for as long as the president wants us , and that is unacceptable .  mr. speaker , i yield myself 1 1/2 minutes .  mr. speaker , the resolution we are debating today is an h. res. resolution .  basically , this is just a sense of the congress .  it is largely symbolic .  one of the complaints that many of us on this side of the aisle , and i know some of the people on the republican side have as well , is that we kind of skirt around the real issue , which is what the policy is .  staying as long as it is going to take , that is not a policy .  that is a sound bite .  the president does not know where we are going in iraq .  he has given speeches that have been heavy on rhetoric , but not particularly big on specifics .  if we want to do something helpful here , bring a binding bill to the floor here that sets out our policy , and let us have it out .  let us have the debate .  let us talk about what our policy should be in iraq .  let us come back next week or let us come back for a week in january and have this debate .  let us discuss what , in fact , our policy should be in iraq .  we are not doing that .  this is all symbolic .  notwithstanding the fact that we have 160 , 000 troops over there , that over 2 , 100 americans have died over there , and 15 , 000 americans have been wounded , tens of thousands of iraqis have been killed , we have yet to have a real policy debate on this house floor about what course we should take in iraq .  that is what we want .  that is what we are hoping for .  i do not think that is unreasonable .  to bring a largely symbolic resolution to the floor and tuck in it this kind of policy statement , give us an hour during the debate on the resolution to talk about everything , that is not the way we should be doing business around here .  mr. speaker , regardless of how members of this house feel about the war in iraq , i think all of us want to congratulate the people of iraq for holding these historic elections and for getting out to vote despite the significant risks .  we all want to congratulate our troops , but quite frankly , there is language in this bill that some of us consider inflammatory , that some of us strongly disagree with , and i would urge my colleagues to vote `` no '' on the previous question so that we can have a unified message and not a divisive message here in the house .  mr. speaker , we have been in iraq now for over 1 , 000 days , and i believe we must begin the transition to putting the iraqis in charge .  president bush 's unwillingness to announce a plan to remove u.s. troops within a clear time frame and his refusal to renounce the use of permanent u.s. military bases i think undermines his rhetoric and i think endangers the chance for democracy to succeed .  our occupation in iraq complicates the transition to democracy .  people can disagree with me on this , but the fact of the matter is we should be debating this issue of how we deal with iraq not in an h. res. form , but in a binding resolution here on the house floor .  we have time to debate merry christmas resolutions here in the house , but we never have the time to debate in a real way and in a meaningful way this war in iraq .  we have sent thousands of our servicemen and -women into harm 's way in iraq .  i would argue we rushed into this war .  we have paid dearly for what the politicians in washington have decided to do .  we owe our troops better than just coming up and saying , stay the course .  we owe them more than saying we are going to stay there until victory is achieved .  what is victory ?  i mean , nobody has defined what victory is .  the president says we will know when we get there .  well , that is not good enough .  that is not good enough for anybody in this house .  that is not good enough for our soldiers .  we owe these brave men and women more than just a pat on the back and a congratulations .  we owe them a real policy , and we owe the people of iraq who have sacrificed so much the right to determine their own future .  they want us to begin to extricate ourselves from iraq .  we should do that , and i would hope that my colleagues will vote `` no '' on the previous question so we can bring up a resolution that truly unites this body and not divides it .  mr. speaker , on that i demand the yeas and nays .  mr. speaker , today , without a doubt , we should congratulate the iraqi people for what appears to be a successful , high-turnout election .  for the third time this year , courageous iraqi citizens have enthusiastically exercised their democratic rights .  but successful elections do not , and can not , obscure the devastating national tragedy that is the iraq war .  it does n't change the fact that over 2 , 100 americans have died for weapons of mass destruction that never existed .  it does n't change the fact that this war has turned iraq into a hotbed of terrorist activity .  it does n't change the fact that our troops are sitting ducks for the insurgents , who have been emboldened -- not deterred -- by our military presence in iraq .  here 's the bottom line : a successful iraqi election should , at the very least , reinforce the imperative of bringing our troops home .  if iraq is truly able to self-govern , then we have no business occupying their country and meddling in their affairs .  i 've argued all year long that it 's time to restore iraqi sovereignty and give iraq back to the iraqi people .  if the election is a watershed moment as the white house claims ... ..  then what is the continued justification for having our troops over there in harm 's way ?  now is the time to enlist the support of the international community to establish an interim security force for iraq .  but that 's just the start .  as i 've written to the president in a letter signed by 61 other members of the house , the united states must also launch a `` diplomatic offensive , '' recasting our role in iraq as reconstruction partner rather than military occupier .  we must also lead the way in establishing an international peace commission to oversee the post-war reconciliation and coordinate peace talks between iraq 's various factions .  the majority of the american people are n't behind it .  our global allies are n't behind it .  the iraqi people are n't behind it .  even iraqi leaders -- sunni , shiite and kurdish alike , who agree on practically nothing -- have united around a call for the united states military to leave .  with the iraqi people having voted once again , let 's offer the ultimate vote of confidence in their democracy .  let 's reward the self-sufficiency they 've demonstrated -- by giving them their country back and bringing american soldiers home .  