mr. speaker , i rise in strong support of this balanced rules package .  i want to speak particularly to the provisions regarding homeland security .  to determine whether a proposed regime to oversee homeland security is appropriate , one can not just look at a flow chart .  the simplest structure is not necessarily the best , nor is one that is unduly complex .  one has to look at how a proposed structure will actually function and what it can and can not accomplish .  the homeland jurisdiction being proposed in this package strikes the right balance between a system that is too centralized and one that is too diffuse .  first , i should say that the most important and necessary change regarding governance of the department of homeland security was made 2 years ago when we created a subcommittee on homeland security on the committee on appropriations .  but having a single committee that can look across the department of homeland security from an authorizing perspective is also a sensible move , and the new committee created in this package will do that .  what would not make sense , however , simple as it might seem , is giving sole authority over all aspects of homeland security to the new committee .  homeland security is too diffuse and important a government activity to rest with one committee .  almost every activity of every federal agency has some relationship to homeland security , and almost every activity of the department of homeland security impinges on the activities of other agencies .  an appropriate congressional oversight structure has to take account of that basic fact .  a structure that overly centralized homeland security oversight would make it harder to evaluate the department of homeland security in the context of the other activities of the federal government .  an overcentralized structure could also make a congressional committee a captive of the agency that it oversees .  i know that it is very easy to denigrate arguments against a single , centralized select committee on homeland security as so much turf fighting .  but in reality it is simply intellectually lazy to assume that a centralized structure would enable congress to do its work more effectively .  i found especially ironic a washington post editorial that called for a highly centralized structure .  the editorial argued that a centralized committee would be more efficient because the department of homeland security would not have to answer questions from a lot of different committees .  well , it would also be more efficient if the department did not have to respond to questions from a lot of different news outlets , but presumably the post would argue that there are advantages to forcing the department to respond to reporters with a variety of areas of expertise and a variety of perspectives .  the post certainly would not want the only news outlet to be an in-house publication .  so i want to applaud the house leadership for doing what it has done , and i stand in strong support of this rules package .  mr. speaker , i offer a privileged resolution ( h. res. 5 ) and ask for its immediate consideration .  mr. speaker , for the purposes of debate only , i yield the customary 30 minutes to the gentlewoman from california ( ms. pelosi )  or her designee , pending which i yield myself such time as i may consume .  during consideration of the resolution , all time yielded is for the purpose of debate only .  mr. speaker , i rise in support of this rules package .  i am also rising in support of the historic legislative agenda it will govern , for today marks the beginning of what historians will likely look back upon as the most productive and significant congress in decades .  the mandate granted the majority , evidenced by our increased majorities in both houses of congress and the first presidential majority in 16 years , is clear .  the american people have entrusted the state of their security , prosperity and families to us ; and over the course of the next 2 years , that sacred trust will be honored by action .  we will continue to defend our homeland and prosecute the war on terror without retreat , and without excuses .  we will provide our military , and their families , with the resources they need to do their heroic work on behalf of the nation they serve .  we will hold rogue regimes accountable for their mischief , and hold fast to our friends around the world , from defiant democrats in israel and taiwan , to longstanding comrades-in-arms like the british and australians , to our resurgent allies in new europe .  we will work with our ever-expanding coalition of the willing to secure the fledging democracies in afghanistan and iraq , and with every political , economic , diplomatic and military tool at our disposal , see the war on terror through to victory .  domestically , our agenda will be no less audacious .  we will continue the work begun in president bush 's first term to cultivate an opportunity society of economic choice and independence .  we will continue to break down the walls , erected by 40 years of liberal policies , between the american people and their dreams .  we will continue to provide seniors with access to affordable , quality health care while empowering them with unprecedented retirement security .  we will continue to take on the three-headed monster of over-taxation , over-litigation and over-regulation that cuts the legs out from every sector of our economy .  and while the 109th congress helps increase our national security and prosperity , we will also help american families raise their children in a society defined by the values that made our nation secure and prosperous in the first place .  we will continue to better protect and educate our children , to protect the institution of marriage , to protect the constitution from judicial activism , and protect the role of family and faith in the public square .  this rules package before us now will help us do this important work , work the american people have hired us to do .  and yet , rather than laying out a positive vision for the next 2 years , or for that matter even discussing the substance of the rules package itself , some may choose this debate to launch the first of what i imagine will be countless personal attacks against the integrity of the majority and , ultimately , the integrity of this institution .  it is a new year , mr. speaker , but an old game , and one to which we can not afford to stoop .  too much is at stake ; too much depends on the success of this historic 109th congress .  to my friends on the other side of the aisle , i would remind them all that i know what it means to be in the minority , to go into contentious votes certain of defeat , to always react to an agenda set by opponents .  but i must also remind them that when republicans were in the minority , we engaged in the battle of ideas .  we developed , and specifically proposed , a substantive vision for the future of our nation .  in the 10 years since that vision was endorsed by our countrymen , we have been honored to work with all members of the minority on one issue or the other to develop successful legislative coalitions .  with our close partisan margins and 24-hour media culture , we sometimes forget we are opponents , not enemies .  we would all do well to remember that , especially given the stakes , the significance and , frankly , the sheer weight of the agenda before us .  so i urge all members to support the rules package before us so we can immediately get to work on behalf of the men and women who sent us here .  mr. speaker , i am honored to once again serve as leader ; but even with all of the gratitude i feel toward you , our conference and toward this body , the source of the honor i feel today is not all in this chamber .  the source of the honor each of us rightfully feels today is our friends and families who have given us their love , the american people who have given us their trust , the men and women in uniform who put their lives on the line for us every day , and our heavenly creator who knitted us together in the womb .  mr. speaker , may god bless the work and workers of the 109th congress , may god bless the cause of justice and freedom around the world , and may god continue to bless the united states of america .  mr. speaker , i ask unanimous consent that the balance of the time allocated to me be controlled by the gentleman from california ( mr. dreier )  .  mr. speaker , i yield myself such time as i may consume .  i just want to say to the gentlewoman from rochester , new york ( ms. slaughter )  that every single member of this institution , democrat and republican alike , is very concerned and focused on the integrity of this institution ; and i believe that that is something which is an extraordinarily high priority for all of us .  i believe that the package that we have coming before us is one which addresses many of the concerns that frankly were raised by the gentlewoman from new york ( ms. slaughter )  .  mr. speaker , i yield myself such time as i may consume .  let me say after having heard from two of my committee on rules colleagues that i anxiously look forward to working with them in a bipartisan way to try to proceed with the deliberations in consideration of measures of this house .  mr. speaker , i yield myself such time as i may consume .  i would like to respond to my very good friend from maryland by saying that i may not be as eloquent today as i was when i was in the minority , but i continue to share my very strong commitment to ensure the integrity and the behavior of members of this institution .  i also will say as my friend said , it is very clear that the gentleman from colorado ( mr. hefley )  , chairman of the committee on standards of official conduct , has made it clear that he is supportive of this package .  i and my colleagues looked at these recommendations , all of which emerged from members and former members of the committee on standards of official conduct .  i also believe that it is very possible for us to maintain the highest ethical standards and to continue to ensure , to now ensure that due process is entitled to members of this institution as they proceed with matters before that committee .  so i believe that this package is one which should enjoy strong bipartisan support , because when it comes to matters of ethics it will address the concern and the protection of members of both the minority and the majority , as well as this institution as a whole .  mr. speaker , i reserve the balance of my time .  mr. speaker , i will be happy to respond to the gentleman .  let me say we are in the midst of a discussion about ethics at this point .  obviously , it is our goal to maintain the highest ethical standards .  we have a law , which is actually a criminal law , which states that it is a violation of 18 u.s. code 607 for the solicitation of campaign contributions from federal property .  the idea behind this change that is included in this rules package is that members should not be required to carry two separate cell phones with them .  this would allow campaign funds to be used for the purchase of a cell phone that might be used for calling your office or other official purposes .  but the law which prevents the solicitation of campaign contributions from federal property in fact is maintained and is one we that feel very strongly about .  in any federal building whatsoever .  on federal property is what the law says .  it is a violation of the law .  it is a violation of the law .  mr. speaker , i reserve the balance of my time .  mr. speaker , i ask unanimous consent that the chair may reduce to 5 minutes the minimum time for electronic voting on the motion to commit and the vote on the adoption of h. res. 5 if the votes immediately follow a 15-minute vote , notwithstanding intervening proceedings attending the administration of the oath of office to members-elect .  mr. speaker , i ask unanimous consent that all members may have 5 legislative days within which to revise and extend their remarks on this rules package .  mr. speaker , i yield myself the balance of my time .  mr. speaker , we have a great rules package that is coming before us , a rules package which i believe is deserving of bipartisan support .  the reason i say it is deserving of bipartisan support is that is the word that has been used by members on both sides of the aisle to describe exactly what we have been doing here and should be doing here .  mr. speaker , this package includes a number of very important provisions .  it allows us to deal with the prospect of a horrendous attack on this institution , and it allows us to continue this institution 's operations so the american people will understand that this institution stands even at a time of great crisis .  this rules package allows for the establishment of a new permanent standing committee on homeland security , as the speaker outlined in his opening remarks here today .  i believe that is something that will allow democrats and republicans to spend time working on that issue .  mr. speaker , this is a rules package which allows for bipartisan process at the ethics committee level .  the committee on standards of official conduct is the committee which has the responsibility of working to ensure the integrity of all of the members of this institution .  the package we have before us does just that .  i believe that the statement made by the chairman of the committee on standards of official conduct , the gentleman from colorado ( mr. hefley )  , is very clear .  he understands that the provisions included in this package will in fact maintain the integrity of this institution .  he was not going to support the earlier package ; he is supporting this package .  the issue of bipartisanship is important because in this package we ensure that we will not see the politicization of the ethics process which tragically we have seen in the past , because it will require bipartisanship , which all members are talking about , if we do proceed with the investigatory process .  that is the right thing to do , and i believe this package should in fact enjoy the support of democrats and republicans alike because it is designed to protect this institution and its members .  mr. speaker , the house is an institution built upon its rules .  accordingly , it is appropriate that one of the first orders of business of the 109th congress will be to adopt a rules package which is both true to its traditions and forward-thinking in its outlook .  the package we have before us represents the work product of many members .  during the initial stages of compiling this package , back in november , the rules committee received 40 difference proposals form both democrats and republicans .  in addition , our committee staff has actively sought the input of the officers of the house , its committees , and its caucuses to get their perspectives on the kinds of changes we can make to facilitate the work of the house .  while not every proposal we received was incorporated into this package , i assure you that each received substantial consideration by the speaker and the rules committee .  and , as always , the rules committee will continue to review our rules and operations to see where other improvements can be made .  mr. speaker , all of the ideals contained in this resolution reflect the considered judgment of our colleagues , and will ultimately improve our ability to carry out our constitutional responsibilities .  while i will detail each of these changes in the section-by-section that i will place in the record , i want to elaborate on just a few of these changes .  the gentlewoman from virginia ( mrs. jo ann davis ) is the author of one important provision directing committees to review matters within their jurisdiction to ferret out duplicative government programs as part of their oversight planning at the beginning of each congress .  there are a number of instances where we are conforming the rules to reflect current house practice , such as with the designation of leadership members of the budget committee and the taking of recesses in committee to allow flexibility on our schedules .  we are also making the ability to consider suspensions on wednesdays permanent in this congress after our successful experiment in the 108th congress .  the package includes important provisions to allow us to function in situations where large numbers of members are incapacitated .  the `` provisional quorum '' language includes a number of safeguards to ensure that this institution can continue to operate during times of turmoil and democracy will be preserved .  as we search for permanent solutions to the problems facing us in the post-9/11 era , this is an important step in meeting our responsibilities .  we will also eliminate the corrections calendar .  while this was originally intended to make it easier to consider legislation making corrections to outright errors in law , it turned out to be more cumbersome than other procedures , such as consideration under suspension of the rules .  and yes , mr. speaker , in a change guaranteed to draw applause from my colleagues , the house rules will now allow us to make reference to the senate and its members , so long as those references are confined to the question under debate and avoid personality .  the senate has long had similar provisions and this new rule merely conforms our rules to theirs .  i know that my colleagues and i share the desire to maintain our traditions of dignity and decorum in proceedings , and will do so even with this rules change .  on another topic , the package makes a series of changes to our ethics rules .  we included two provisions suggested by the chairman and ranking member of the standards committee : ( 1 ) clarifying the rule on officially connected travel to allow a family member other than a spouse or child to travel with the member at the sponsor 's expense , and ( 2 ) conforming the rules of the house to current law which allow the use of campaign funds to pay for certain official expenses , such as a cellphone .  we also included provision suggested by the gentleman from connecticut ( mr. larson ) to conform the rules of the house to current law with regard to the 90-day pre-election limit on franked mail .  the package also includes two other provisions addressing our ethics rules .  the first gives members the same rights to choose their counsel before the ethics committee that they would enjoy if they were a respondent in a court case .  the second change addresses an inequity in the standards committee process requiring an investigative subcommittee if the chairman and ranking member do n't act within 45 days .  this change restores the presumption of innocence in our process .  as important as each of those changes are , mr. speaker , perhaps the most important change in this resolution will be the creation of a new standing committee on homeland security .  it represents a far-reaching and critically important part of our overall strategic effort to protect the american people .  the 9/11 commission unanimously called for this action .  they saw the need , and we believe most members do , too .  over the past 3 years , the congress has asked the american people to accept change in countless ways .  we have mandated change at the federal , state , and local levels .  we have asked for change from our allies and forced change upon our enemies .  and we saw the need for change over 2 years ago , and we responded , first with the enactment of the homeland security act of 2002 , and then with the formation of the select committee on homeland security .  their final report , a thorough and complete study of homeland security jurisdiction as it relates to house rules , was transmitted to my committee at the end of last year .  these measures made it clear to me and many other members that steps need to be taken to further ensure the safety of the american people .  the rules committee thoroughly reviewed the select committee 's report and recommended a comprehensive and thoughtful reform effort that mirrors the recommendations of the 9/11 commission : the formation of a permanent committee on homeland security .  this change in house rule x , which governs the committee and their legislative jurisdictions , is delicately crafted architecture .  it draws to the new committee only jurisdiction directly related to our defense against terrorism .  thus , it creates a primary committee while recognizing the other legitimate oversight roles of existing committees .  it acknowledges the expertise and experience residing in other committees and leaves with them jurisdiction that may have a homeland security implication but not a direct policy relationship .  the house must have one central point where we , as national legislators , sort out the critical questions of securing our homeland without sacrificing our free society or a stable economy .  however , we envision a system of `` purposeful redundancy. '' by that we mean more than one level of oversight and an atmosphere in which the competition of ideas is encouraged .  with this jurisdiction and the legislative history that i will place in the record , the department of homeland security will have more certainty as to which committee has the primary responsibility for homeland security .  at the same time , the american people will live with the assurance that we are working to prevent anything from falling through the cracks .  mr. speaker , the new committee will have jurisdiction over : ( 1 ) overall homeland security policy ; ( 2 ) the organization and administration of the department of homeland security ; and ( 3 ) functions of the department of homeland security relating to border and port security ( except immigration policy and non-border enforcement ) , customs ( except customs revenue ) , the integration , analysis , and dissemination of homeland security information , domestic preparedness for and collective response to terrorism , research and development , and transportation security .  by approving this resolution , the house will do what the speaker and the 9/11 commission has asked it to do : consolidate jurisdiction of the house in one committee .  this committee will be dedicated to setting national homeland security policy and to effectively overseeing that the department of homeland security carries out its mission .  mr. speaker , in making these changes , i want to note several points for the record .  first , referrals to the select committee on homeland security in the 108th congress will not be considered a precedent for referrals in the 109th congress .  second , at the request of mr. thomas , i am placing a document into the record regarding understandings between the department of treasury and the department of homeland security .  third , because the department continues to evolve , references to a department , agency , bureau , office , or subdivision include a reference to successor entities to the extent that the successor engages in homeland security activities now conducted by the department , agency , bureau , office , or subdivision referred to in the legislative history .  for example , the homeland security act of 2002 transferred the office of domestic preparedness to the department of homeland security , to `` have the primary responsibility within the executive branch of government for preparedness of the u.s. for acts of terrorism. '' subsequently , its name has been changed by the department to `` office of state and local government coordination and preparedness ( slgcp ) '' although its mission stays the same .  finally , i welcome questions from my colleagues about jurisdictional matters related to this change .  however , i want to caution all members that referrals are solely within the speaker 's power , and , in my answers , i will not infringe upon the power .  once again , i appreciate the input from all of you regarding the 109th rules package , and i feel that with your assistance , we will make the rules of the house stronger and make for a safer country .  mr. speaker , i am inserting for the record the following legislative history regarding the changes made by this resolution to rule x , along with supporting materials .  legislative history to accompany changes to rule x rule x and the committee on homeland security & lt ; p & gt ; & amp ; nbsp ; & amp ; nbsp ; & amp ; nbsp ; legislative history overall homeland security policy -- the jurisdiction of the committee on homeland security over `` overall homeland security policy '' is to be interpreted on a government-wide or multi-agency basis similar to the committee on government reform 's jurisdiction over `` overall economy , efficiency , and management of government operations and activities .  ... .. '' surgical addresses of homeland security policy in sundry areas of jurisdiction occupied by other committees would not be referred to the committee on homeland security on the basis of `` overall '' homeland security policy jurisdiction .  for example , the committee on homeland security shall have jurisdiction over a bill coordinating the homeland security efforts by all of the critical infrastructure protection sectors .  jurisdiction over a bill addressing the protection of a particular sector would lie with the committee otherwise having jurisdiction over that sector .  organization and administration of the department of homeland security -- the jurisdiction of the committee on homeland security would apply only to organizational or administrative aspects of the department where another committee 's jurisdiction did not clearly apply .  the committee 's jurisdiction is to be confined to organizational and administrative efforts and would not apply to programmatic efforts within the department of homeland security within the jurisdiction of other committees .  homeland security oversight -- this would vest the committee on homeland security with oversight jurisdiction over the homeland security community of the united states .  nothing in this clause shall be construed as prohibiting or otherwise restricting the authority of any other committee to study and review homeland security activities to the extent that such activity directly affects a matter otherwise within the jurisdiction of that committee .  individual committee concerns agriculture -- the jurisdiction of the committee on homeland security over `` border and port security '' shall be limited to agricultural importation and entry inspection activities of the department of homeland security under section 421 of the homeland security act of 2002 .  the committee on agriculture shall retain jurisdiction over animal and plant disease policy including the authority reserved to the department of agriculture to regulate policy under section 421 of the homeland security act of 2002 , and the animal health protection act , the plant protection act , the plant quarantine act , and the agriculture quarantine inspection user fee account .  the committee on agriculture shall retain jurisdiction over the agricultural research and diagnosis armed services -- the committee on armed services shall retain jurisdiction over warfighting , the military defense of the united states , and other military activities , including any military response to terrorism , pursuant to section 876 of the homeland security act of 2002 .  energy and commerce -- the committee on homeland security shall have jurisdiction over measures that address the department of homeland security 's activities for domestic preparedness and collective response to terrorism .  the words `` to terrorism '' require a direct relation to terrorism .  the committee on homeland security 's jurisdiction over `` collective response to terrorism '' means that it shall receive referrals of bills addressing the department of homeland security 's responsibilities for , and assistance to , first responders as a whole .  the committee on energy and commerce ( and other relevant committees ) shall retain their jurisdiction over bills addressing the separate entities that comprise the first responders .  for example , the committee on energy and commerce shall retain its jurisdiction over a bill directing the department of health and human services to train emergency medical personnel .  financial services -- the committee on financial services shall retain jurisdiction over the national flood insurance program and emergency food and shelter program of fema , and the defense production act .  the committee on financial services shall retain its jurisdiction over the anti-money laundering , terrorist financing , and anti-counterfeiting activities within the department of the treasury and the financial regulators .  government reform -- the committee on homeland security shall have jurisdiction over `` the organization and administration of the department of homeland security. '' the committee on government reform shall retain jurisdiction over federal civil service , the overall economy , efficiency , and management of government operations and activities , including federal procurement , and federal paperwork reduction .  the committee on government reform shall retain jurisdiction over government-wide information management efforts including the federal information security management act .  the committee on homeland security shall have jurisdiction over intelligence -- the permanent select committee on intelligence shall retain jurisdiction over the intelligence and intelligence-related activities of all departments and agencies of the federal government , including the office of the director of national intelligence and the national counterterrorism center as defined in the intelligence reform and terrorism prevention act of 2004 .  judiciary -- the committee on the judiciary shall retain jurisdiction over immigration policy and non-border enforceme4tn of the immigration laws .  its jurisdiction over immigration policy shall include matters such as the immigration and naturalization process , numbers of aliens ( including immigrants and non-immigrants ) allowed , classifications and lengths of allowable stay , the adjudication of immigration petitions and the requirements for the same , the domestic adjudication of immigration petitions and applications submitted to the department of labor or the department of homeland security and setting policy with regard to visa issuance and acceptance .  its jurisdiction over non-border enforcement shall be limited to those aspects of immigration enforcement not associated with the immediate entry of individuals into the country , including those aspects of the bureau of immigration and customs enforcement .  the science -- the committee on science shall retain some jurisdiction over the research and development activities of the department of homeland security as such matters are incidental to the committee on science 's existing jurisdiction ( except where those activities are in the jurisdiction of another committee ) .  transportation and infrastructure -- the committee on transportation and infrastructure shall retain jurisdiction over the coast guard .  however , the committee on homeland security has jurisdiction over port security , and some coast guard responsibilities in that area will fall within the jurisdiction of both committees .  jurisdiction over emergency preparedness will be split between the committee on transportation and infrastructure and the committee on homeland security .  the committee on transportation and infrastructure shall retain its jurisdiction under clause 1 ( r ) ( 2 ) over `` federal management of emergencies and natural disasters. '' this means that the committee retains its general jurisdiction over the emergency preparedness and response operations of the federal emergency management agency ( fema ) .  bills addressing fema 's general preparation for disaster from any cause shall be referred as indicated earlier , the committee on homeland security 's jurisdiction over `` collective response to terrorism '' means that it would receive referrals of bills addressing the department of homeland security 's responsibilities for , and assistance to , first responders as a whole and not over measures addressing first responder communities individually .  the committee on homeland security shall have jurisdiction over the functions of the department of homeland security relating to transportation security , while the committee on transportation and infrastructure shall retain its jurisdiction over transportation safety .  in general , the committee on homeland security would have jurisdiction over bills addressing the transportation security administration and the committee on transportation and infrastructure would have jurisdiction over bills addressing the various entities within the department of transportation having responsibility for transportation safety , such as the federal aviation administration and the federal motor carrier safety administration .  the jurisdiction of the committee on homeland security does not ways and means -- the jurisdiction of the committee on ways and means over `` customs revenue '' is intended to include those functions contemplated in section 412 ( b ) ( 2 ) of the homeland security act of 2002 and includes those functions as carried out in collection districts and ports of entry and delivery .  secretary of the treasury , date : may 15 , 2003 .  subject : delegation from the secretary of the treasury to the secretary of homeland security of general authority over customs revenue functions vested in the secretary of the treasury as set forth in the homeland security act of 2002 .  by virtue of the authority vested in me as the secretary of the treasury , including the authority vested by 31 u.s.c .  321 ( b ) and section 412 of the homeland security act of 2002 ( pub .  l. 107-296 ) ( act ) , it is hereby ordered : 1 .  consistent with the transfer of the functions , personnel , assets , and liabilities of the united states customs service to the department of homeland security as set forth in section 403 ( 1 ) of the act , there is hereby delegated to the secretary of homeland security the authority related to the customs revenue functions vested in the secretary of the treasury as set forth in sections 412 and 415 of the act , subject to the following exceptions and to paragraph 6 of this delegation of authority : ( a ) ( i ) the secretary of the treasury retains the sole authority to approve any regulations concerning import quotas or trade bans , user fees , marking , labeling , copyright and trademark enforcement , and the completion of entry or substance of entry summary including duty assessment and collection , classification , valuation , application of the u.s. harmonized tariff schedules , eligibility or requirements for preferential trade programs , and the establishment of recordkeeping requirements relating thereto .  the secretary of homeland security shall provide a copy of all regulations so approved to the chairman and ranking member of the committee on ways and means and the chairman and ranking member of the committee on finance every six months .  ( ii ) the secretary of the treasury shall retain the authority to review , modify , or revoke any determination or ruling that falls within the criteria set forth in paragraph 1 ( a ) ( i ) , and that is under consideration pursuant to the procedures set forth in sections 516 and 625 ( c ) of the tariff act of 1930 , as amended ( 19 u.s.c .  1516 and 1625 ( c ) ) .  the secretary of homeland security periodically shall identify and describe for the secretary of the treasury such determinations and rulings that are under consideration under sections 516 and 625 ( c ) of the tariff act of 1930 , as amended , in an appropriate and timely manner , with consultation as necessary , prior to the secretary of homeland security 's exercise of such authority .  the secretary of homeland security shall provide a copy of these identifications ( b ) paragraph 1 ( a ) notwithstanding , if the secretary of homeland security finds an overriding , immediate , and extraordinary security threat to public health and safety , the secretary of homeland security may take action described in paragraph 1 ( a ) without the prior approval of the secretary of the treasury .  however , immediately after taking any such action , the secretary of homeland security shall certify in writing to the secretary of the treasury and to the chairman and ranking member of the committee on ways and means and the chairman and ranking member of the committee on finance the specific reasons therefor .  the action shall terminate within 14 days or as long as the overriding , immediate , and extraordinary security threat exists , whichever is shorter , unless the secretary of the treasury approves the continued action and provides notice of such ( c ) the advisory committee on commercial operations of the customs service ( coac ) shall be jointly appointed by the secretary of the treasury and the secretary of homeland security .  meetings of coac shall be presided over jointly by the secretary of the treasury and the secretary of homeland security .  the coac shall advise the secretary of the treasury and the secretary of homeland security jointly .  2 .  any references in this delegation of authority to the secretary of the treasury or the secretary of homeland security are deemed to include their respective delegees , if any .  3 .  this delegation of authority is not intended to create or confer any right , privilege , or benefit on any private person , including any person in litigation with the united states .  4 .  treasury order no .  165-09 , `` maintenance of delegation in respect to general authority over customs revenue functions vested in the secretary of the treasury , as set forth and defined in the homeland security act of 2002 , '' dated february 28 , 2003 , is rescinded .  to this extent this delegation of authority requires any revocation of any other prior order or directive of the secretary of the treasury , such prior order or directive is hereby revoked .  5 .  this delegation of authority is effective may 14 , 2003 .  this delegation is subject to review on may 14 , 2004 .  by march 15 , 2004 , the secretary of the treasury and the secretary of homeland security shall consult with the chairman and ranking member of the committee on ways and means and the chairman and ranking member of the committee on finance to discuss the upcoming review of this delegation .  6 .  the secretary of the treasury reserves the right to rescind or modify this delegation of authority , promulgate regulations , or exercise authority at any time based upon the statutory authority reserved to the secretary by the act .  john w. snow , mr. speaker , i am transmitting a status report on the current levels of on-budget spending and revenues for fiscal year 2005 and for the 5-year period of fiscal years 2005 through 2009 .  this report is necessary to facilitate the application of sections 302 and 311 of the congressional budget act and section 401 of the conference report on the concurrent resolution on the budget for fiscal year 2005 ( s. con .  res. 95 , which is currently in effect as a concurrent resolution on the budget in the house under h. res. 5 ) .  this status report is current through january 21 , 2005 .  the term `` current level '' refers to the amounts of spending and revenues estimated for each fiscal year based on laws enacted or awaiting the president 's signature .  the first table in the report compares the current levels of total budget authority , outlays , and revenues with the aggregate levels set forth by s. con .  res. 95 .  this comparison is needed to enforce section 311 ( a ) of the budget act , which creates a point of order against measures that would breach the budget resolution 's aggregate levels .  the table does not show budget authority and outlays for years after fiscal year 2005 because appropriations for those years have not yet been considered .  the second table compares the current levels of budget authority and outlays for discretionary action by each authorizing committee with the `` section 302 ( a ) '' allocations made under s. con .  res. 95 for fiscal year 2005 and fiscal years 2005 through 2009 .  `` discretionary action '' refers to legislation enacted after the adoption of the budget resolution .  this comparison is needed to enforce section 302 ( f ) of the budget act , which creates a point of order against measures that would breach the section 302 ( a ) discretionary action allocation of new budget authority for the committee that reported the measure .  it is also needed to implement section 311 ( b ) , which exempts committees that comply with their allocations from the point of order under section 311 ( a ) .  the third table compares the current levels of discretionary appropriations for fiscal year 2005 with the `` section 302 ( b ) '' suballocations of discretionary budget authority and outlays among appropriations subcommittees .  the comparison is also needed to enforce section 302 ( f ) of the budget act because the point of order under that section equally applies to measures that would breach the applicable section 302 ( b ) suballocation .  the fourth table gives the current level for 2006 of accounts for advance appropriations under section 401 s. con .  res. 95 .  this list is needed to enforce section 401 of the budget resolution , which creates a point of order against appropriation bills that contain advance appropriations that are : ( i ) not identified in the statement of managers or ( ii ) would cause the aggregate amount of such appropriations to exceed the level specified in the resolution .  enactment of measures providing new budget authority for fiscal year 2005 in excess of $ 46 , 377 , 000 , 000 ( if not already included in the current level estimate ) would cause fiscal year 2005 budget authority to exceed the appropriate level set by s. con .  res. 95 enactment of measures providing new outlays for fiscal year 2005 in excess of $ 21 , 374 , 000 , 000 ( if not already included in the current level estimate ) would cause fiscal year 2005 outlays to exceed the appropriate level set by s. con .  res. 95 .  enactment of measures that would reduce revenue for fiscal year 2005 ( if not already included in the current level estimate ) would cause revenues to fall further below the appropriate level set by s. con .  res. 95 .  enactment of measures resulting in revenue reduction for the period of fiscal years 2005 through 2009 ( if not already included in the current level estimate ) would cause revenues to fall further below the appropriate levels set by s. con .  res. 95 .  appropriate level & lt ; p & gt ; & amp ; nbsp ; & amp ; nbsp ; & amp ; nbsp ; 23 , 158 current level : interior subcommittee : elk hills 36 & lt ; p & gt ; & amp ; nbsp ; & amp ; nbsp ; & amp ; nbsp ; labor , health and human services , education subcommittee : & lt ; p & gt ; & amp ; nbsp ; & amp ; nbsp ; & amp ; nbsp ; employment and training administration & lt ; p & gt ; & amp ; nbsp ; & amp ; nbsp ; & amp ; nbsp ; 2 , 463 & lt ; p & gt ; & amp ; nbsp ; & amp ; nbsp ; & amp ; nbsp ; education for the disadvantaged & lt ; p & gt ; & amp ; nbsp ; & amp ; nbsp ; & amp ; nbsp ; 7 , 383 & lt ; p & gt ; & amp ; nbsp ; & amp ; nbsp ; & amp ; nbsp ; school improvement & lt ; p & gt ; & amp ; nbsp ; & amp ; nbsp ; & amp ; nbsp ; 1 , 435 & lt ; p & gt ; & amp ; nbsp ; & amp ; nbsp ; & amp ; nbsp ; children and family services ( head start ) & lt ; p & gt ; & amp ; nbsp ; & amp ; nbsp ; & amp ; nbsp ; 1 , 400 & lt ; p & gt ; & amp ; nbsp ; & amp ; nbsp ; & amp ; nbsp ; special education & lt ; p & gt ; & amp ; nbsp ; & amp ; nbsp ; & amp ; nbsp ; 5 , 413 & lt ; p & gt ; & amp ; nbsp ; & amp ; nbsp ; & amp ; nbsp ; vocational and adult education & lt ; p & gt ; & amp ; nbsp ; & amp ; nbsp ; & amp ; nbsp ; 791 transportation and treasury subcommittee : payment to postal service 62 veterans , housing and urban development subcommittee : section 8 renewals 4 , 200 & lt ; p & gt ; & amp ; nbsp ; & amp ; nbsp ; & amp ; nbsp ; & lt ; p & gt ; & amp ; nbsp ; & amp ; nbsp ; & amp ; nbsp ; total & lt ; p & gt ; & amp ; nbsp ; & amp ; nbsp ; & amp ; nbsp ; 23 , 183 current level over ( + ) / under ( - ) appropriate level 25 & lt ; p & gt ; u.s. congress , congressional budget office , washington , dc , january 24 , 2005 .  dear mr .  chairman : the enclosed report shows the effects of congressional action on the fiscal year 2005 budget and is current through january 21 , 2004 .  this report is submitted under section 308 ( b ) and in aid of section 311 of the congressional budget act , as amended .  the estimates of budget authority , outlays , and revenues are consistent with the technical and economic assumptions of s. con .  res. 95 , the concurrent resolution on the budget for fiscal year 2005 .  the budget resolution figures incorporate revisions submitted by the committee on the budget to the house to reflect funding for wildland fire suppression and for technical reasons .  these revisions are authorized by sections 312 and 313 of s. con .  res. 95 .  in addition , under section 402 of s. con .  res. 95 , amounts designated as emergency requirements are exempt from enforcement of the budget resolution .  as a result , the enclosed current level report excludes these amounts ( see footnote 2 of the report ) .  since my last letter , dated november 17 , the congress has cleared and the president has signed the following acts that changed budget authority , outlays , or revenues for fiscal year 2005 : the second continuing resolution , 2005 ( public law 108-416 ) ; the miscellaneous trade and technical corrections act ( public law 108-429 ) ; the third continuing resolution , 2005 ( public law 108-434 ) ; the consolidated appropriations act , 2005 ( public law 108-447 ) ; an act to amend title xix of the social security act ( public law 108-448 ) ; the arizona water settlements act ( public law 108-451 ) ; the veterans ' benefits improvement act of 2004 ( public law 108-454 ) ; the thrift savings plan open elections act of 2004 ( public law 108-469 ) ; an act to authorize salary adjustments for justices and judges of the united states ( public law 108-491 ) ; an act to amend to internal revenue code of 1986 ( public law 108-493 ) ; an act to amend the national telecommunications and information administration organization act ( public law 108-494 ) ; the federal employee dental and visions benefits act of 2004 ( public law 108-496 ) ; and an act to accelerate the income tax benefits for charitable cash contributions for the relief of victims of the indian ocean tsunami ( public law 109-1 ) .  the effects of the actions listed above are detailed in the accompanying report .  sincerely , douglas holtz-eakin , enclosure .  mr. speaker , on rollcall no .  5 i was inadvertently detained .  had i been present , i would have voted `` nay . '' mr. speaker , on rollcall no .  12 i was in the chamber seeking recognition but the vote was closed .  had i been able to vote , i would have voted `` no . '' mr. chairman , if the gentleman will yield further , i do not mean to reiterate or repeat too much .  looking at the history of these congressional gold medals , though , i think is very telling in terms of what we are doing because the history has always been to individuals for outstanding achievement .  so in terms of the groups , i really think we should honor that .  that is not disrespectful of any group that has gotten it or all the other groups who are potentially eligible out there if you use them in that criteria of measurement .  but the other issue is interesting , and that is how many of these should we be able to have ?  first of all , the history of the gold medal has been very bipartisan .  i think , as we all know , when we are dealing with that many signatures , it is going to be bipartisan .  there is no question about that .  but my sense is that the two a year is not as limiting as one might think when you really again look at the history of this .  in fact , if anything , it would be an expansion over what the total history of it has been .  by the time you go through a legislative session and you gather 290 signatures and you go through committee and you go to the floor , and i have handled these bills , they often happen the last day , by the way , so it is always very confusing in terms of what we are doing , i think you are going to find this is not as limiting as one might think .  again , i recognize the fact that it is a bigger country , that there is much more going on in the country and that kind of thing , but we are really trying to make sure that this is truly an honor for somebody who does something extraordinary in science or the arts , or an elected official or somebody of that nature , usually a president , i think the only elected official who has ever been honored ; people in religion , people who have just absolutely stood out in their circumstances .  my sense is while we can argue here on the floor that it is limiting , i think the bottom line is it is not going to end up being as limiting as one might think .  hopefully it would not be .  obviously if that happened to be the case , it is something that could always be revisited , but i just do not think it is going to be the case .  i believe that straightening this out is actually going to make these gold medals much more of a distinction than perhaps they would be if we allowed this to continue , particularly with the commemorative coin changes , increasing the pressure to try to do so many of these .  mr. chairman , i made a couple of these points before , and again i will not repeat too much here , but first and foremost is the 290 signatures .  i do not know if one party is ever going to have 290 members or not , i sort of doubt it , at least in the time most of us are around here , and you need both parties in order do this .  i learned with the coin that i did , which was benjamin franklin .  i can not tell you , and hardly anyone can tell you , whether benjamin franklin was or would have been a republican or a democrat in his history .  we do not know the politics of people like george washington , and certainly the people who have been from other countries , a number of individuals who received medals here in the congress of the united states .  in the history of the gold medals , as i believe the gentleman from new york ( mr. crowley )  pointed out , it has been as much democrats , even more so than republicans .  even on the business of the commemorative coins , a number of the sponsors in the senate have been democrats as well .  i just have never noticed a lot of politics in this , i guess is my point .  it seems to me i have been asked to sign these , and i generally sign them , unless it is something i think is spurious , by democrats and republicans .  i do not think about it .  certainly , if a party feels it is being slighted , they can say we are just not going to sign on to something .  i do not think this needs a political balance .  what it really needs , i think , is to find out , if we are going to do two , who the two most distinguished individuals are who should be recognized and go ahead and recognize them , apart from whatever the politics may be .  i do not think it is going to fall down along political lines .  so i do rise in opposition to this .  i just think it is sort of a necessary strain on having a political balance on something which is not essential .  mr. chairman , i yield myself such time as i may consume .  mr. chairman , let me close by first indicating to the gentleman from new york ( mr. crowley )  that the gentleman from delaware ( mr. castle )  as well as myself acknowledge that the folks who received the medal in the past were most deserving .  i would point out , in fact , that the medal that was awarded , for example , to ronald and nancy reagan , was one medal , and the same thing with dr .  king and coretta scott king , and betty and gerald ford .  couples are treated much differently from a group .  i guess perhaps what i found in studying this , perhaps the most egregious example of going beyond what the initial scope of the medal was was in the 106th congress where we awarded five medal bills , one of them was for the navajo code talkers which did not go in regular order .  it was attached at the last minute to an appropriations bill .  it not only covered the 29 original code talkers but also an additional 275 of those who qualified as code talkers .  i guess , and i do not want to speak for the sponsor of the legislation , but i think it points out the need to tighten these requirements .  that is what the purpose of this legislation is all about .  if the bill were passed , the answer is no , they would not .  mr. chairman , let me point out in the case of the navajo code talkers , there were other tribes also that had code talkers , not just the navajo .  again , the issue is where do we start and where do we finish in this area .  again , going back to the history of the medal , and the first recipient was george washington , it was to an individual and was to an individual for a very , very long period of time .  the gentleman from delaware ( mr. castle )  pointed out correctly , historically the gold medal was given out quite rarely , 45 in 123 years , to individuals .  the change ironically was brought about with the change in the commemorative coin program that did in fact move the congress to adopting more gold medals .  this is an effort to try to get back to where history started us , awarding that medal to an individual and awarding it not to a group , no matter how small or how large , and that really was the intent of the legislation .  reclaiming my time , and the gentleman may want to respond .  let me just comment .  there is an avenue , i would suggest to my friend from new york , to honor large groups .  that would be the commemorative coin .  it is somewhat ironic that after the reforms that were made by the gentleman from delaware where we tightened the restrictions on commemorative coins , and for good reason , that we then had this increase in the gold medal .  i think we can safely say that the gold medal traditionally supports the concept of honoring an individual for service to the country , and that the commemorative coin , which has been essentially put on the back burner , presents a very appropriate avenue for recognizing groups that heretofore have not been honored .  i think that the reforms in the past and the ones that the gentleman from delaware is now propounding in this bill makes excellent sense .  i think once the members understand the changes , that they are going to gravitate toward the concept of a commemorative coin as opposed to the gold medal .  that is precisely what the gentleman from delaware proposes in this legislation .  let me , in closing , mr. chairman , indicate , first of all , my respect for the members who have undertaken the responsibility of going out and getting 290 signatures .  virtually everyone i have talked to said , never again , because of the difficulty .  i said , well , think of it this way .  you get a chance to meet a lot of new friends .  every time you walk over or ride over for a vote , every time you see a member in the dining room , wherever it may be , you are getting their support .  but it is a difficult process .  i think the gentleman from delaware was right in raising that bar to where it is now , because it really does focus one 's attention on how difficult that process is .  it does make it , by definition , a bipartisan process .  that is a fact of life that we deal with time and time again .  the legislation before us , i think , does restore the medal to what it was envisioned to be way back in 1776 .  mr. speaker , i rise in opposition to the motion to recommit .  mr. chairman , on rollcall no .  10 i was unavoidably detained .  had i been present , i would have voted `` no . '' mr. speaker , by direction of the committee on rules , i call up house resolution 42 and ask for its immediate consideration .  mr. speaker , i ask unanimous consent that section 2 of the resolution be stricken .  mr. speaker , i yield myself such time as i may consume .  i appreciate the comments from the gentleman from florida , my good friend from the committee on rules , and would like to ask him at this time if he would like to consume the time .  at this time , i may have one additional speaker , but do not at this time and would wish that the gentleman would consume his time .  then i would expect to close .  i would like to ask the gentleman if he would like to do that .  mr. speaker , i rise in support of h. con .  res. 36 .  once again , activist judges threaten our authority , first of all , to direct federal fund spending ; and , second of all , they attempt to create law .  we have required here in congress at universities that receive federal dollars to extend access to military recruiters equal to other outside groups .  but in the name of free speech and association , some schools seek to deny their students access to recruiters and rotc , obviously afraid that their students would maybe even make a wrong choice .  it is ironic that an institution whose sole function , whole reason for being , is based on the free exchange of ideas , would then boycott the armed forces , the very people who actively protect their academic freedom .  it is further ironic that those who are often noted for concern that low-income americans are serving in disproportionate numbers in the armed forces would block many of their students born with a silver spoon access to rotc .  my own son currently serves in iraq .  he graduated near the top of his class from the u.s. naval academy ; and , last sunday , he had the satisfaction of witnessing the birth of freedom in a land where for 50 years freedom has been an exotic concept .  by passing h. con .  res. 36 , we reassert our support for freedom and our disdain for those liberal , elite institutions that seek to sensor choices for their wealthy clientele .  mr. speaker , let me thank my colleague for yielding me this time .  mr. speaker , today i rise in strong support of this resolution , which shows our nation 's unwavering commitment to both higher education and providing a strong national defense .  at no time in recent memory has our country placed more responsibility on the shoulders of our men and women in uniform .  we are fighting a war on terrorism on multiple fronts , in afghanistan and iraq .  and it is essential that if we are to be victorious in defending our freedom and protecting our homeland that we promote military service as an option to college students across the united states .  when this congress passed and president bush signed into law the no child left behind act , the bill made it easier for military recruiters to inform america 's high school students about their options to serve their country , while also giving parents a choice about whether or not they want their sons and daughters to be contacted individually by military recruiters .  now in this resolution we are reiterating the choices given to institutions of higher education .  the solomon act , originally passed in 1995 , grants the secretary of defense power to deny federal funding to institutions of higher learning if they prohibit military recruitment on campus .  this law recognizes the importance of having a capable , educated and well-prepared military , one that is ready to defend american liberties such as freedom of speech and higher education .  if we deny armed forces recruiters the opportunity to actively recruit in schools , we not only disrespect the sacrifices of military men and women who have made our freedom possible ; we also rob our students of the valuable opportunities that military service can be to our nation and what they can help provide .  there is no reason not to allow the nation 's armed services to make their best case to college students and to do so in the same manner as private sector employers that colleges and universities seem to relish having on campus .  denial of access and equality to military recruiters by colleges that receive federal funds is an insult to the taxpayers who help subsidize higher education in this country .  many nations have mandatory military service for their citizens .  we do not .  the very core of our system of homeland security and national defense depends on young men and women deciding that they wish to serve our country .  successful recruitment of the best officers in our military relies heavily on our military recruiters ' access to the best and the brightest .  and it seems a bit disingenuous for the elite institutions of higher education , such as harvard , yale , stanford , georgetown , and new york university , to condemn the lack of the wealthy and privileged in the ranks of our military while these schools deny their students the option of even hearing about a career in our united states military .  this resolution should not be politicized .  it is a straightforward reaffirmation of our armed forces and our students .  congress does not force colleges and universities to accept federal funding .  if an institution of higher learning wishes to bar military recruiters from recruiting , it is free to do so .  but federal funding is not an entitlement and such institutions should not expect that decision to be endorsed and subsidized by the taxpayers of the united states .  the resolution reaffirms our commitment to that principle .  and i want to commend the gentleman from california ( mr. hunter )  and i also want to thank the gentleman from minnesota ( mr. kline )  for bringing this resolution to the floor and urge my colleagues to support it .  mr. speaker , i rise in full support of this resolution and urge my colleagues to support its passage .  asking the administration to appeal the third circuit is the right thing to do .  what is happening on some college campuses is deja vu for those of us who attended colleges in the 1960s and the 1970s .  back then too many college administrators lacked the courage to resist pressure from then what were called left-wing student groups and other professors to ban military recruiters from their campuses .  as a result , students who sought military careers were denied equal access to careers of their choice and our schools became the centers for a wide range of nonsense courses .  the student protestors of the 1960s and 1970s and those of like mind are now the administrators and professors of colleges and universities all over the country .  clearly , they have neither changed their politics nor loathing for the american military .  even at a time when our servicemen and -women are encouraged to defeat the forces of tyranny and terror , they remain the same .  in denying military recruiters equal access to campuses such as harvard law school , college administrators violate the most basic principles of the right to associate and free speech they so profess is precious .  despite large numbers of conservative students attending their institutions , these liberals preach tolerance ; however , these liberal administrators and professors have now become the most intolerant people i know .  the following quote is from a student typical of the attitude of many of these ivory bastions : `` the day my political science department hires a republican and i am allowed to sit in a class without a number of snickers , jeers , and/or dirty looks when president bush 's name is even mentioned is the day i will admit there is progress on today 's campus. '' mr. speaker , congress did not ask for special access for military recruiters .  we are asking for just equal access to groups such as those seeking support for such liberal causes as abortion rights , frivolous lawsuits , same-sex marriage , elimination of the right to private property , gun control , orwellian big government .  mr. speaker , once again activist judges have clearly overstepped their authority , and it is time for the administration to stand and say that the u.s. court of appeals for the third circuit was wrong in their ruling and please seek an appeal .  mr. speaker , by direction of the committee on rules , i call up house resolution 59 and ask for its immediate consideration .  mr. speaker , i reserve the balance of my time .  mr. speaker , i reserve the balance of my time .  mr. speaker , issues like this one -- first brought to our attention with a passion and eloquence only possible in a man like jerry solomon -- provide our democracy a valuable service : they cut through the fog of spin and force us to tell the american people exactly where we stand .  pure and simple , this bills says our armed services -- the army , navy , air force , marines , coast guard , and national guard -- should have the same right to recruit at colleges and universities who receive federal funding as any other group .  every year , thousands upon thousands of businesses , industries , non-profit groups , and even other colleges recruit underclassmen to sign up to become investment bankers and computer engineers or environmental lawyers or medical students .  and yet , some colleges -- principally the elitist and elite colleges -- refuse to even allow military recruiters on their campuses .  such policies are obnoxious in times of peace , but they are simply intolerable in times of war , and the equal access of our military recruiters to federally funded colleges and universities must be protected .  but that , mr. speaker , is the easy part .  the hard part is understanding why facilities and administrations of these colleges do n't want military recruiters on their campuses .  because , at bottom , their opposition to the presence of veterans at their schools is not about academic freedom , or civil liberties .  it 's about them not liking the military , or the values our men and women in uniform represent .  it 's about many of them preferring the company of people who blame the united states for 9/11 -- who compare the world trade center victims to nazis -- to the company of a soldier or a sailor or an airman or a marine .  it 's about academia feeling more sympathy for terrorists than for the women and children they murder .  it 's about a fundamental misconception about the purpose of a university -- the professors are there for the students , mr. speaker , and not the other way around .  that our military makes our academia possible , and not the other way around .  indeed , the right of tenured academics to be publicly insufferable exists only because of the sacrifices of our servicemen and women .  the least they could offer in return is a booth in the field house on career day .  of course , men and women who have dodged bullets and held dying comrades in their arms do n't take seriously people who live by the glib professional code `` publish or perish. '' but those elite campuses , who claim to educate our nation 's best and brightest , who claim to train our leaders of the future : how can we possibly not allow military recruiters to have the right to talk to such students ?  what profession , if any in our entire society , needs the opportunity to recruit the sharpest and broadest minds of every generation more than our armed forces ?  america 's armed services have molded great men from all walks of life , and when given brilliant men and women , they have produced legends .  how can we let such minds pass through our top colleges without even the chance that they might bump into a veteran recruiter who could change their life ?  america in the future no doubt will need its brilliant businessmen and lawyers and poets , but what good can such genius do without brilliant admirals and generals to protect them ?  mr. speaker , it 's a shame this issue was ever forced on us at all , but the vote on this bill will help to clarify exactly what we each mean when we say we support the troops .  we 'll finally see who among us really believes the military deserves more than just lip service from those of us they protect .  votes like this , after all , remind us of one of the great blessings of american democracy : that unlike college professors , congressmen do n't have tenure .  mr. speaker , i thank the gentleman for yielding me this time and for the distinguished way in which he has conducted the debate and also the gentleman from alabama ( mr. rogers )  for sponsoring this resolution .  mr. speaker , let us make this clear .  this is not about some social issue .  the real impetus for this barring of the american military from our college campuses is because of the left-wing core of administrators and professors who do not like this country .  and we could substitute another protest issue for them in this thing and it would not make a bit of difference .  these are the same people who in many cases had protests in favor of the viet cong during the vietnam war .  many of them protested our involvement in el salvador , protested our bringing democracy to nicaragua , protested our participation in the first desert storm in the early 1990s , and in this recent bringing of freedom to iraq .  they protested all those things .  they hate all things military .  and the interesting aspect of this debate is that these same left-wing professors and administrators profess to let young people make up their own minds .  free thinking is theoretically their trademark .  let us have some free thinking .  let us allow the military to be on the campuses .  let us allow the students to have access to their information , and let us let them make up their own minds .  there is no draft here .  this is a volunteer military .  they do not have to join the military .  but the idea that the left-wing professors and administrators have to protect the students from that very military that the gentleman from florida ( mr. miller )  so eloquently described as the protectors of all of our freedoms including their freedoms to have academic freedoms , to protest and to speak freely , the idea that these students have to be shielded from the guarantors of our freedoms is nonsense .  mr. speaker , i yield myself such time as i may consume .  in closing , i would just say that we have heard some discussion today about policies of the united states armed forces for a long time .  since its inception , there have been special policies applied to our military , the ability to impose nonjudicial punishment , the ability to restrict entry by those who are too tall or too short , the ability to order its members away from home and into combat and into harm 's way .  but the discussion today is not about those policies and should not be about those policies .  the discussion today is about keeping our military , keeping our armed forces , the best trained , the best led , the best equipped in the world ; and that means we need the ability to recruit the best and the brightest .  this is about insisting that our military recruiters have equal access to america 's universities and colleges .  i urge all of my colleagues to support this resolution .  mr. speaker , on that i demand the yeas and nays .  mr. chairman , on rollcall no .  28 i was unavoidably detained .  had i been present , i would have voted `` no . '' mr. chairman , i rise today in strong support of h.r. 418 , the real id act .  as a member of the congressional immigration reform caucus , i join with my colleagues to raise attention to the serious flaws in our immigration system which leave our nation exposed to potential threats .  the 9/11 commission made several recommendations which were not enacted as part of the national intelligence reform act of 2004 ( public law 108-458 ) , including provisions to strengthen identification document standards and to secure our borders .  the commission specifically recommended that the federal government should set standards for the issuance of birth certificates and sources of identification such as driver 's licenses .  in addition , the commission recommended the department of homeland security 's , dhs , completion of a biometric entry-exit screening system and the improvement of u.s. border security standards for travel and border crossing .  i was disappointed that the conference committee on the intelligence reform bill opted to remove the immigration-related provisions approved by the house during its consideration of h.r. 10 last fall .  i commend house leadership for honoring the commitment made to chairman sensenbrenner to allow the consideration of the bill we have before us today .  we have a real opportunity to adopt meaningful reforms to improve our immigration system .  h.r. 418 establishes strict proof of identity for all applicants for state-issued driver 's licenses and identification documents .  this bill serves to protect the integrity of our immigration laws by requiring states , in effect , to confirm lawful immigration status or disclose the lack of confirming identification on the face of cards issued .  h.r. 418 also makes aliens deportable for terrorism-related offenses to the same extent that they would be inadmissible for the same grounds .  if nothing else , our immigration system must prevent potential terrorists from entering the united states .  we would not be exercising our responsibility to protect national security if we were to allow our immigration system to be exploited by those malevolent individuals who seek to destroy americans and our way of life .  mr. chairman , there are many flaws in our immigration system which need to be fixed .  h.r. 418 does not address them all , but it does represent a good step forward in discouraging lawbreaking by those who would choose to exploit our welcoming nature .  as a cosponsor of the real id act , i urge my colleagues to improve our nation 's security and strengthen our immigration laws by voting for h.r. 418 .  mr. chairman , our committee chairman is exactly right ; we can go to page 384 in the 9/11 commission report .  and i encourage all of my constituents to do this , look at this : `` for terrorists , travel documents are as important as weapons. '' and what is the number one travel document ?  it is a driver 's license .  it is a huge gaping hole that we have .  that is why it is imperative that we pass the real id act today and we set a national standard .  maybe that is just too much common sense for some of my friends that do not want us to do that , but if someone is going to use a travel document as a driver 's license and use it as a way to circumvent our laws and harm our citizens , then it is imperative that we close that loophole .  having standards that all the states would follow is a great way to close that loophole .  i would encourage my colleagues to support the real id act .  i thank the gentleman from virginia ( chairman tom davis ) for his good work on this issue , and i encourage our constituents to read this report and see the importance of the actions that we are taking today .  mr. speaker , i thank the gentleman for yielding the time .  mr. speaker , i am here to support the rule and encourage this body to move forward with legislation that we have already debated many times in the last congress and legislation that really solves a problem .  i do suggest that using terms like `` immigrant hater '' does not help this debate .  this is about border security .  it is not about those of us who reach out to help immigrants , particularly those immigrants who are here legally and lawfully all the time .  it is not even about whether they are disadvantaged by people who are here illegally .  this is about three significant border security issues .  one is id and clearly id issued by states is important and significant .  the bipartisan commission that looked into 9/11 dealt specifically with this issue , something that has been overlooked in much of our debate now , the almost-sanctified 9/11 commission .  that commission said travel documents are as important as weapons and urged the congress to do something about travel documents that did not reflect the true status of individuals .  in fact , on september 11 , driver 's licenses became weapons of mass destruction .  in the united states today , a driver 's license is all it takes to transfer money to a bank account , to enter a federal building or other vulnerable facility , to board a train or an airplane .  lax standards and loopholes in the current issuance processes allow terrorists to obtain driver 's licenses , often multiple licenses from different states .  in southwest missouri , where i am from and right in the middle of the country , of the 1 , 387 people who were detained by the office there who were illegally in the country in the year that ended september 30 , 50 percent of those people had a state-issued driver 's license or state-issued id card , not at all difficult to get .  of the 19 terrorists on 9/11 , they had five dozen driver 's licenses between them and used those driver 's licenses to get on the planes that crashed into the world trade center , the pentagon , and a field in pennsylvania .  this act would require identity documents to expire at the same time a visa expires , so that someone who is here on an appropriate 6-month visa , as , in fact , much to our amazement , some of the 9/11 terrorists were , are not given a 6-years ' driver 's license when the documents they do produce say they can legally be here for 6 months .  this bill also tightens the process of applying for asylum in the united states to close loopholes in the system that have been taken advantage of by terrorists .  this issue was widely debated on the floor last year .  the example i gave was the terrorist who was here from jordan who had bombed an international school in jordan full of american kids .  well , that terrorist had not committed a crime in this country and under the current law was allowed to stay here unsupervised in a country full of american kids .  certainly that is not acceptable .  that person should have had to have a hearing .  this legislation requires that .  i urge that we adopt the rule and the legislation .  mr. speaker , i thank the gentleman for yielding me this time , and i rise , of course , in support of this supplemental .  i also want to rise to really express my appreciation to the gentleman from california ( chairman lewis ) and the tremendous job he has done in limiting the scope of this supplemental and getting this work done in a quick way , and moving forward on the rest of our appropriations process at the same time .  these measures can often become reasons not to move forward with the normal work of the house , and the gentleman from california ( chairman lewis ) and his committee and their staff have really accepted double responsibility and double duty by doing these things at the same time .  this bill does include , as my friend from maryland ( mr. hoyer )  mentioned , the embassy compound in baghdad .  he and i visited the current embassy together in december , and i think we disagree on the need to go ahead and get this project started now .  the project is 10 percent below the amount of money that the administration asked for .  it is a substantial amount of money .  it is a difficult environment , but bidding and starting these projects simply can not happen if we have a little piece of that money to start with ; you have to have the money available so that this embassy can be built and that our people representing us there in the embassy can be secure .  we had two people killed in the current embassy compound in recent weeks from a missile that was fired there , and we need to move forward .  in addition to providing vital funding for our troops in fighting the war , this bill also addresses some of the border vulnerabilities identified by the 9/11 commission .  this legislation does not create a national id card or a national database , but it does move forward in securing our borders and making our asylum process work better to protect americans , both young and old .  this legislation tightens the asylum system because of that .  finally , this legislation provides $ 635 million for increased border security and enforcement .  that includes $ 176 million to hire , train , equip , and support 500 border patrol agents and relieve current facility overcrowding .  it includes almost half a billion dollars for immigration and customs enforcement , which includes $ 97.5 million to hire and train additional criminal investigators and immigration enforcement agents .  this bill works to protect our fighting forces abroad , to help secure our borders at home , to move us forward in the war against terror .  i appreciate the committee 's work on it , and i encourage its approval today .  mr. chairman , today i rise to express my concern over a provision in h.r. 418 , the real id act of 2005 .  section 102 of this act states that the secretary of homeland security shall have the authority to waive , and shall waive , all laws necessary to ensure expeditious construction of barriers and roads in the vicinity of the u.s. border in areas of high illegal entry .  the provision also bars judicial review of any claim arising from the construction of barriers and roads at borders .  i understand that this provision is intended to apply primarily to the fence along the border near san diego .  the construction of that fence is critical to our national security and has been delayed for far too long and i think it is imperative that it be constructed as soon as possible .  however , i believe the provision currently contained in this bill is far too sweeping .  it should not be necessary to waive all laws and judicial review relating to the construction of roads and barriers along the border in order to complete the fence near san diego .  i hope that as the bill moves forward we can find a solution that will lead to the swift construction of this fence without sweeping away important laws .  mr. chairman , i would like to thank chairman sensenbrenner for his tireless efforts and leadership in getting the real id act to the floor and for championing national security issues and the crisis we face today with our nation 's border security .  i would also like to thank my colleagues in the southern california delegation for their efforts and for helping to protect not only their districts , but also the nation 's borders as well .  san diego border fence : for too long our nation has been playing chicken with our national security by ignoring the need to take a comprehensive approach to border security issues , particularly as they pertain to the mexican border .  the mexican border has long been a porous and unguarded route for anyone wishing to sneak into the united states to inflict harm on our nation and our citizens , including terrorists .  in particular , the san diego sector covers an area of more than 7 , 000 square miles and 66 miles of international border with mexico .  beyond that section of the border are the mexican cities of tijuana and tecate , which boasts a combined population of more than 2 million people .  this area of the border has been a heavily traveled route for illegal immigrants and potential terrorists due to the major cities and transportation hubs , such as lax airport in los angeles .  this area alone accounts for nearly 50 percent of national apprehensions of illegal immigrants nationwide .  a significant number of illegal immigrants that have been apprehended in this area can be directly attributed to the san diego fence that was constructed a few years ago .  the san diego fence is a project that was started several years ago , but a 3.5-mile section of the fence was not completed due to environmental concerns .  the portions of the san diego fence that have been built have proven to be successful and are credited with significant declines in attempted border crossings in that area .  the existing fence needs improvements and must be extended 3.5 miles to its originally planned length .  this legislation puts those priorities front and center by granting the secretary of homeland security the authority to waive all federal laws in order to complete the fence .  in addition , this bill will increase the funding to improve the existing fence with a 3-tiered fence system and complete the original designed length .  while environmental issues plays an appropriate role in our nations ' policies , the environmental and national security impacts of having illegal immigrants trample this portion of the border is greater than the concerns regarding building and completing the fence .  lastly , recent press accounts have reported that al qaeda operatives have joined forces with alien smuggling rings in order to enter the united states , particularly through the southern border with mexico .  the time to act on the san diego border fence is now .  drivers ' license : real id act also bolsters stronger security standards for the issuance of drivers ' licenses to aliens .  this bill will establish requirements that help prove lawful presence in the united states prior to issuing a license to individuals .  in addition , it is critical that all states must comply to eliminate weak links in the domestic identity security .  we have all seen the failures of cards such as the matriculate consular cards and the widespread fraud that can take place .  this bill requires tough physical security requirements to reduce counterfeiting and to ensure state compliance with such standards .  lastly , drivers ' licenses that are issued in compliance with the new regulations will expire when an alien 's visa expires to alleviate any confusion or ability for terrorists asylum provisions : finally , the real id act will tighten the asylum system that has been abused and gamed by terrorists for years .  this bill allows judges to determine a witnesses ' credibility in their asylum cases .  without this change , judges have no discretion in determining the credibility of witnesses testifying that they are being persecuted .  judge 's hands have been tied over the years and must just grant asylum in every case where persecution has been raised and have not been able to go beyond that point .  this has allowed terrorists who have been persecuted in their home country for being terrorists to seek shelter in the united states .  currently , this argument can not be used against them and is not grounds for deportation .  this bill gives the power to refuse terrorists entry to the united states and allows terrorists to be deported back to their home country .  terrorists have long been abusing our system in order to gain entry .  this bill provides a list of long-accepted commonsense factors that an immigration judge can consider in assessing credibility , such as the demeanor , candor , responsiveness and consistency of an asylum applicant or other witness .  it is essential for judges to be able to determine asylum cases based on the credibility or lack of credibility of witnesses .  again , i would to thank chairman sensenbrenner for his efforts in getting this bill to the floor and i strongly urge my colleagues to vote in favor of this bill because these reforms are necessary to our national security .  mr. chairman , i move to strike the last word .  i had a very good discussion with the gentleman from california ( mr. lewis )  .  i did not come here to the floor to strike these provisions from the bill .  i will work with the administration .  i will work with the committee on appropriations .  i am going to do that as an authorizer .  i am not claiming jurisdictional grounds .  i am not going to play games with the gentleman from wisconsin ( mr. obey )  at all .  i thought what the gentleman from wisconsin ( mr. obey )  did by making a performance of duty was a wise thing .  i think that was a wise move of the gentleman .  i do not know why the gentleman would be upset with regard to my remarks on performance of duty because what the gentleman from wisconsin ( mr. obey )  did is followed what we , the gentleman from illinois ( mr. evans )  and i , had also recommended .  performance of duty is a good thing .  i do not have a problem with the performance of duty .  i have come to the floor to express some concerns with regard to the identification of an insurance product .  we are turning it into an indemnity and a gratuity with regard to an insurance product .  we have to be smart about our business with regard to how we proceed .  that is my purpose of being here .  it is not to reach into the treasury and just say we are going to give this money out .  but it does and i gave the example because you can have someone who has an accidental death or a duty nonperformance in the service .  i will be more than happy to get the gentleman legal counsel so he can understand what he has written .  i thank the gentleman .  what the gentleman from wisconsin ( mr. obey )  did with regard to performance -- -- i believe that the performance of duty that is in the bill , what it does , it does identify with regard to who will receive payment and who do not receive payments .  that was why i used the word `` limited '' or `` restricted '' because you could have an individual , mr. chairman , of whom died in an auto accident , was murdered , or something happened to them and they do not qualify .  absolutely .  that is why what we have here are two individuals of whom understand what we are talking about but probably have a , well , anyway , let us not use semantics .  what i do wish to do as we proceed forward as we go to conference working with the senate is work also with the administration , work with the department of defense , the va and omb to make sure that we bring a proper identity with regard to service and group life insurance that also subsidizes veterans group life insurance , and that is what i want to work with the chairman on .  mr. speaker , i rise today in support of the rule on h.r. 418 .  our nation 's immigration policy has been of top concern in recent years , and for good reason .  with between eight and twelve million illegal aliens in the united states , it is obviously a problem out of control .  we need to increase border security and fix our immigration laws .  we need a system that will encourage well-intentioned , contributing aliens out of the shadows and allow them to pay a reasonable penalty so they can come into compliance with the law .  americans are rightly concerned about the security and the integrity of the nation 's borders because the system is broken .  some are concerned about the possibility of terrorists crossing our borders and coming into our cities .  but we can not effectively fight terrorism if we fail to make the distinction between them and busboys and housekeepers .  from 1990 to 2000 , the number of u.s. border patrol agents nearly tripled , but illegal immigration increased by as much as 5.5 million .  increasing enforcement resources to keep out willing immigrant workers , as we did throughout the 1990s , has not worked .  it has failed , and we need enforcement to be much more narrowly focused on criminals and potential terrorists .  today , we are considering h.r. 418 .  this legislation begins the debate on the enforcement aspects of immigration and addresses the narrow issue of driver license security .  i have reservations about the gradual move toward what could become a national id card , but this legislation begins to address issues necessary to focus efforts in enforcement .  mr. speaker , i intend to vote in favor of h.r. 418 , but while doing so , i suggest that enforcement , border security and immigration reform must be worked on together .  in fact , fixing the broken system requires a broader strategy that includes both enforcement and the creation of adequate legal channels for immigration that serve the nation 's interests .  by creating legal channels for those looking for a better life and looking to fill jobs that americans will not fill , we enhance our enforcement efforts .  the responsible authorities can focus their resources first on the worst actors .  our immigration laws and policies must reflect the realities we face today .  our economy demands workers , but our national security demands that we identify those lurking in the shadows .  enhanced enforcement must be the top priority for immigration policy .  the american people are not anti-immigrant .  we are concerned about the lack of coherence in our immigration policy and enforcement .  as part of today 's debate , we must realize that the congress needs to address the other issues with immigration reform now .  broader immigration reform has been outlined by president bush .  i commend him for his act of leadership .  he has outlined the solution and now congress must act quickly in crafting legislation .  this bill is our first step in a long journey to restore public confidence in an open , welcoming immigration code .  let us give thanks to our immigrants when b.c .  forbes sailed for america from scotland in 1904 , he was following a course well worn by generations of scots .  i know how the founder of forbes magazine must have felt .  the murdochs originally hail from the same part of scotland .  today , we are part of the most recent wave of immigrants attracted by the bright beacon of american liberty .  these days , it 's not always easy to talk about the benefits of immigration .  especially since 9/11 , many americans worry about borders and security .  these are legitimate concerns .  but surely a nation as great as america has the wit and resources to distinguish between those who come here to destroy the american dream -- and the many millions more who come to live it .  the evidence of the contributions these immigrants make to our society is all around us -- especially in the critical area of education .  adam smith , another scotsman , knew that without a decent system of education , a modem capitalist society was committing suicide .  well , our modern public school systems simply are not producing the talent the american economy needs to compete in the future .  and it often seems that it is our immigrants who are holding the whole thing up .  in a study on high school students released this past summer , the national foundation for american policy found 60 percent of the top science students , and 65 percent of the top math students , are children of immigrants .  the same study found that seven of the top award winners at the 2004 intel science talent search were immigrants or children of immigrants .  this correlates with other findings that more than half of engineers -- and 45 percent of math and computer scientists -- with ph.d.s now working in the u.s. are foreign born .  it 's not just the statistics .  you see it at our most elite college and university campuses , where asian immigrants or their children are disproportionately represented .  and a recent study of 28 prestigious american universities by researchers from princeton and the university of pennsylvania found something startling : that 41 percent of the black students attending these schools described themselves as either immigrants or children of immigrants .  the point is that by almost any measure of educational excellence you choose , if you 're in america you 're going to find immigrants or their children at the top .  i do n't just mean engineers and scientists and technicians .  in my book , anyone who comes here and gives an honest day 's work for an honest day 's pay is not only putting himself closer to the american dream , he 's helping the rest of us get there too .  as ronald reagan said at the statue of liberty , `` while we applaud those immigrants who stand out , whose contributions are easily discerned , we know that america 's heroes are also those whose names are remembered by only a few. '' let me share some of these names with you .  start with eddie chin , an ethnic chinese marine who was born a week after his family fled burma .  you 've all seen cpl .  chin .  because when baghdad fell , he was the marine we all watched shimmy up the statue of saddam hussein to attach the cable that would pull it down .  or lance cpl .  ahmad ibrahim .  his family came to the u.s. from syria when the first gulf war broke out .  now cpl .  ibrahim hopes to be deployed to iraq -- also as a marine -- to put his arabic language skills in the service of corps and country .  or what about cpl .  jos gutierrez , who was raised in guatemala and came to america as a boy -- illegally !  cpl .  gutierrez was one of the first marines killed in action in iraq .  as his family told reporters , this young immigrant enlisted with the marine corps because he wanted to `` give back '' to america .  so here we have it -- asian marines , arab marines , latino marines -- all united in the mission of protecting the rest of us .  is n't this what reagan meant when he said that the bond that ties our immigrants together -- what makes us a nation instead of a collection of individuals -- is `` an abiding love of liberty '' ?  so the next time you hear people whining about what a `` drain '' on america our immigrants are , it might be worth asking if they consider these marines a drain .  maybe this is more clear to businessmen because of what we see every day .  my company , news corporation , is a multinational company based in america .  our diversity is based on talent , cooperation and ability .  frankly it does n't bother me in the least that millions of people are attracted to our shores .  what we should worry about is the day they no longer find these shores attractive .  in an era when too many of our pundits declare that the american dream is a fraud , it is america 's immigrants who remind us -- by dint of their success -- that the dream is alive , and well within reach of anyone willing to work for it .  we are fortunate to have a president who understands that .  only a few days ago , the white house indicated that it intended to revive an immigration reform which the president had first offered before 9/11 and tried to revive back in january .  politically speaking , a guest-worker plan is no easy thing .  but as president bush realizes , we 'll never fix the problem of illegal immigration simply by throwing up walls and trying to make all of us police them .  we 've tried that for a decade or so now , and it 's been a flop .  what we need to do first is to make it easier for those who seek honest work to do so without having to disobey our laws .  fundamentally that means recognizing that an economy as powerful as ours is always going to have a demand for more workers .  such a policy would benefit us all : it would help those who want nothing more than to work legally move out of the shadows .  it would help our security forces stop wasting resources now spent on hunting down mexican waitresses and start devoting them to tracking the terrorists who really threaten us .  it would help the economy by providing america with the labor and talent it needs .  given the tremendous pressures on president bush and the considerable opposition from within his own ranks , the politically expedient thing for him to do would be to drop it .  but he has n't , and i for one am encouraged by his refusal to give in .  the immigrant editor b.c .  forbes spent much of the 20th century championing the glories of american opportunity .  we who have arrived more recently likewise will never forget our debt we owe to this land -- and the obligation to keep that same opportunity alive in the 21st .  mr. murdoch is chairman and chief executive of news corporation .  this is adapted from a speech he gave last thursday , in acceptance of the 2004 b.c .  forbes award .  immigration reform : a 3-legged stool while not a major theme of last fall 's campaign , a debate on immigration reform will be front and center in the early days of the new bush administration .  early last year , president bush acknowledged that our immigration system is broken and needs to be fixed .  for this he deserves credit .  recognizing that there is a problem is a critical first step toward finding a solution .  in the past 10 years , more than $ 20 billion has been spent on adding border patrol agents , building fencing and employing technology to prevent border crossings .  during roughly the same period , however , estimates on the net number of undocumented entering the country have risen from about 300 , 000 per year to about 500 , 000 per year .  more disturbing is that , in the past five years , more than 2 , 000 migrants have lost their lives perishing in remote portions of the american southwest .  and yet those who survive the gauntlet of a dangerous border crossing find work in short order .  our economy needs their manpower : the labor department projects that , by the year 2008 , there will be 6 million more low-skilled jobs available than americans able to fill them .  at the same time , these workers contribute billions to the tax and social security systems .  truth be told , our current system , instead of discouraging undocumented migration , makes it inevitable because adequate provisions in law do not exist to match up willing workers from other countries with unfilled jobs here .  work visas for unskilled workers are absurdly small compared to the demand -- 5 , 000 in the permanent system and up to 66 , 000 in the temporary one .  family-unity visas can be even scarcer , with waiting times as long as 10 years for mexican families to be reunited with a relative who is a u.s. citizen or legal resident .  we need immigration reform legislation with three major components , akin to a three-legged stool .  the administration plan proposed last january addresses only one leg -- employment -- which is insufficient to support the weight on the system .  first , any new proposal should feature means for undocumented long-term residents to access permanent residency .  legalization does not necessarily mean amnesty .  it can be conditioned on any number of criteria including -- for example , `` sweat equity '' the undocumented have already accrued through their work in the united states .  such a legal remedy would stabilize both immigrant families and the labor force .  second , it should reform the employment-based legal immigration system in a way that increases legal avenues to work while protecting the rights of both foreign-born and u.s. workers .  this would permit future flows of workers to enter safely and legally and reduce deaths at the border .  third , the plan should shorten waiting times under the family reunification system .  too often , our current system separates husbands from wives and parents from children , a morally unacceptable outcome in a nation built upon the strength of the family .  anti-immigrant polemicists ignore the human tragedy and familial dislocation enabled by the status quo , while discounting the invaluable contributions immigrants make to our nation .  americans are , as a whole , fair-minded people .  we can not continue to accept the benefits of undocumented laborers but be unwilling to extend to them the protection of the law .  the undocumented are not `` breaking '' the law as much as they are being `` broken '' by the law .  after our country 's unhappy experience with jim crow `` laws '' that resulted in the creation of a large black underc1ass , we should not repeat the same mistake in tolerating the creation of a large immigrant underc1ass by not affording legal remedies that would afford them the protection of law and the opportunity for upward mobility .  we applaud the president for recognizing how the present immigration regime hurts both americans and undocumented immigrants in america .  the new congress should work with president bush to enact a comprehensive solution to our immigration crisis .  only such a `` three-legged '' comprehensive approach will protect human rights and prepare our nation for the challenges of the future .  for doable policy resolving the dilemma posed by many millions of `` undocumented '' workers in america requires compromise that few will find completely satisfying .  temporary work permits will please neither those who want all illegal immigrants deported nor those who want another round of amnesty .  amnesty is politically untenable , and deporting millions of people is not doable .  it would require enormous amounts of money and manpower from a government that is already strapped to meet current social obligations and international commitments .  president bush told reporters recently that he wants u.s. border patrol agents chasing `` crooks and thieves and drug-runners and terrorists , not good-hearted people who are coming here to work. '' the president is seeking levelheaded immigration legislation that could improve domestic security and put policy in line with the needs of the globalized american economy .  the most sensible approach would offer legitimacy to those who have worked diligently in america , while imposing and enforcing tough employer sanctions against companies that continue to employ undocumented workers .  this would weaken the so-called magnet effect that lures otherwise law-abiding people to jump the border .  such a policy requires several key provisions .  one would obligate illegal immigrants to come out of the shadows to prove their identities in return for some form of legitimate status .  this type of trade-off serves u.s. interests by identifying those who are here `` to work , '' as the president has said .  bringing them out of the woodwork would allow law enforcement agents to focus more sharply on catching those who are here to do harm .  a reform bill should take into account the brainpower needs of the u.s. economy .  there are untold numbers of people around the world who are standing in line to legally enter the united states , and many of these would-be immigrants possess skills that american employers need .  since the sept .  11 attacks , this process has become cumbersome and counterproductive .  immigration reform should streamline the process for granting skilled foreigners access to the united states , particularly those well-suited for workplaces that have a tough time finding qualified hands .  there 's no reason the united states ca n't have a policy that promotes safety while meeting the needs of the workplace .  congress and the white house can find suitable resolutions to the security , social and labor quandaries posed by immigration if prejudices and stigmas are shoved aside in favor of rational proposals that bolster u.s. security and global competitiveness .  mr. chairman , i would like to submit a statement for the record from the americans for tax reform .  february 9 , 2005 .  our nation 's immigration and border control policies cry out for reform .  while our best border control officers should be preventing the next terrorist incursion into our country , they are instead hunting down willing workers .  the attacks of september 11th called for new and updated thinking in all areas of federal law enforcement , and immigration reform has been a glaring omission .  america 's immigration system must be reformed in a responsible , welcoming , adult manner along the lines laid out by president bush .  willing workers should be matched with willing employers , citizenship and residency applications must be streamlined , and the focus must shift to protecting the nation from terrorists .  border security has been increased since 9/11 , and should continue to be so .  the latest technology must be used to make sure america 's border is free of terrorist incursions .  in order to let the border guard do their job of defending america , the president supports giving foreign laborers guest worker cards , `` to match willing workers with willing employers. '' president bush is opposed to amnesty for illegal immigrants .  he also does not want to give foreigners in the guest worker program any advantage over those who are trying to become citizens through normal , due process channels .  congress should support president bush 's common-sense plan to reform and strengthen america 's broken immigration system even as border security is addressed today in the house of representatives .  grover norquist , mr. chairman , i congratulate the chairman and the committee on government reform for reporting out this bill that is so important that this congress take action on and take action on now .  of course we need to do this .  of course we need to pass the real id act .  because as the chairman just said , certainly all of us who board planes want to know that there is some integrity to our id system in this country and that terrorists are not boarding planes by the use of a state-issued identification card .  this is not conjecture .  this is what happened on 9/11 .  this is what the 9/11 commission suggested that we take action on , and this is what we are here doing today .  as the chairman suggested , i am proud to say that in 2003 virginia , under the leadership of former attorney general jerry kilgore , acted to close this dangerous loophole .  the general assembly passed and the governor signed into law a provision which requires the minimum standard , which says that anyone applying for a license in virginia must have legal status in this country ; that they must have a visa ; and that the license that would be issued would coterminate with the termination or expiration of that visa .  this is just common sense .  why do we want terrorists to have a license issued by a state to go and board our airplanes and commandeer those airplanes into a building ?  it is time for congress to act , to provide and mandate a minimum standard for states when they issue state ids , including driver 's licenses , to require that individuals who have that privilege be here in this country legally .  mr. chairman , i thank the gentleman from virginia ( mr. tom davis ) for his leadership on this , and i urge passage of the real id act .  mr. speaker , i rise today to voice my strong support for h.r. 1268 , the emergency supplemental appropriations act for defense , the global war on terror , and tsunami relief .  this essential legislation will support and defend america 's values both at home and abroad .  our troops serving in iraq will have the necessary tools to continue their rebuilding efforts in iraq and to continue the war on terror .  at home , the real id provisions will strengthen our nation 's driver 's license laws , providing each citizen with another layer of security .  until now , terrorists could easily exploit weak driver licensing laws and obtain fake documents .  with a license in hand , terrorists were better able to blend in , avoid detection , and harm our nation 's citizens .  this is exactly what several of the 9/11 terrorists did , using drivers ' licenses to board airplanes and murder thousands of innocent americans on september 11 , 2001 .  we in congress have been working on ways to prevent our nation from experiencing another terrorist attack by establishing stronger and more secure national programs .  stronger driver 's license standards made possible by the real id provisions will be another step towards american security .  the real id provisions will close dangerous gaps that remain in our current licensing law and that allow terrorists to abuse our asylum and driver 's license systems .  the new law will protect innocent americans by setting up national driver 's license standards , networking state motor vehicle data bases , and linking visa and license expirations .  in 2003 , the former attorney general of virginia , jerry kilgore , and i worked together on the driver 's license integrity act .  that legislation required non-immigrant aliens to show their visas when applying for state identification and tied the expiration date of the identification to that of the visa .  due to mr. kilgore 's leadership on this issue , the commonwealth of virginia was one of the first states to clamp down on terrorists ' abuse of the trust that a driver 's license conveys .  today , i am pleased to see virginia 's driver 's license integrity act provisions in this piece of legislation before us in the house of representatives .  since the beginning of the war on terror , congress has fought daily to ensure that our nation never again suffers at the hands of terrorists .  the provisions in this bill provide us with more weapons in our arsenal against terrorism .  i urge passage of this legislation .  mr. chairman , i yield myself 1 minute , because i think the gentlewoman from texas has made some very valid points that need to be discussed .  one thing that is important and what we have done here is to understand that there has to be a conviction in this situation by a court of law before it can be entered into a database of the transportation security administration .  that is very important .  it gives all the protection of what could happen there .  we thought a lot about that because it was a matter of some concern .  so a mere allegation or something that proves not to be true would never be entered into the database .  i wanted to make that point .  mr. chairman , i thank the gentlewoman for her good questions and for yielding .  we are not sure at this point whether they include that information or not at tsa , because simply they have databases and we do not know necessarily what is in their databases , and i do not blame them at all .  they are not prone to reveal all of that .  it is our judgment they should be doing this .  we hope that they would be doing it .  we do not know if they are for sure or not .  i can not confirm or deny that , because we simply do not know the answer to that particular question .  i would imagine , and i am putting myself in their position and i am not an expert on this , but if you are there and are in the security forces there , you are obviously trained in document recognition to some great degree .  some are better probably than others at this .  obviously , if one has a database , it is obviously much more of a clear signal that this person needs to be looked at because they tried to do this before .  that is the reason we feel it should be added into the database as it goes on .  i do not think this is going to change actually the way they look at licenses presently in the first instance or even in second instance .  it is just a trigger mark as other things might be in terms of potential risks .  yes .  mr. chairman , if the gentlewoman would yield further , no , i would not have objected to having hearings .  it is relatively simple .  i do not mean to suggest it needs panels of hearings , but i never object to having a hearing .  mr. chairman , i believe the gentlewoman from texas ( ms. jackson-lee )  has the right to close ?  mr. chairman , i rise in strong support of the real id act , and i want to thank the distinguished chairman of the committee on the judiciary , the gentleman from wisconsin ( mr. sensenbrenner )  , for his efforts in this matter .  it is very important .  this bill is about common sense .  it is about protecting our borders and making our country safer .  the 9/11 commission report revealed many disconcerting facts , none more unnerving than the fact that all but one of the 9/11 hijackers who were here temporarily obtained valid driver 's licenses , enabling them to travel freely about the country .  that is absurd , and the american people know it .  this bill finally does something about that absurdity .  we can not continue to let our laws be exploited and circumvented by future terrorists to further their plans of violence , destruction , and murder .  with the real id act in place , we can better prevent future tragic events from occurring .  mr. chairman , i urge my colleagues to pass this critical piece of legislation .  mr. chairman , i yield myself such time as i may consume .  i am happy to join this debate as the chairman of the committee on homeland security and welcome the gentleman from mississippi ( mr. thompson )  , my ranking member .  we are here because each day thousands of people illegally enter the united states .  they know where to cross .  they know how to get a driver 's license .  and if they are caught , they even know how to rig our legal system to stay in the country nonetheless .  what has been the result of this broken system ?  on january 25 , 1993 , mir aimal kansi stood at the entrance of the central intelligence agency and gunned down five people .  a month later ramzi yousef masterminded the first bombing of the world trade center .  both men were in the country because they were awaiting the outcome of their asylum applications .  this legislation will fix that loophole .  on september 11 , 2001 , according to the 9/11 commission report , the 19 hijackers responsible for the 9/11 terrorist attacks carried between them 13 u.s. driver 's licenses and 21 state-issued id cards .  several of these hijackers had overstayed their visas , and they were unlawfully in this country .  but their driver 's licenses permitted them to board those airplanes nonetheless .  this bill fixes that problem .  the laws that we are operating under today allow terrorists to enter our country and to plan and carry out attacks in the united states .  the reality is that this homeland security vulnerability is being exploited by terrorists and criminal aliens every day .  h.r. 418 makes necessary changes to ensure that terrorists do not obtain identification , as did the 9/11 hijackers , that will permit them to board airplanes or access federal facilities or easily travel within the united states .  the most literal security gap that this bill addresses is the 3-mile hole in the san diego border fence .  recent press accounts have reported that al qaeda operatives have joined forces with human smuggling rings in order to enter the united states .  as we now know , the 9/11 hijackers were interviewed 25 times by u.s. consular officers ; they had 43 contacts with immigration and customs authorities .  but because of administration and congressional initiatives requiring the screening of all foreign nationals entering the united states , terrorists will be forced to resort to crossing our borders illegally .  the border security fence , therefore , which thus far has been mired in bureaucratic delays , is part of our national security efforts and must be completed now .  for decades the border between san diego and mexico has been the preferred corridor for entry into the united states by unknown or undocumented persons .  with highly populated cities both north and south of the border as well as relatively quick access to national transportation hubs such as lax , it is the perfect place for aliens to slip across the border and gain quick access to u.s. communities and transportation networks .  the important infrastructure assets in the area , including in particular the largest naval base on the west coast of the united states and the busiest seaport in the united states , makes securing this area even more important .  from september through november , 2004 , the border patrol apprehended over 23 , 000 individuals with criminal records including 84 wanted for murder and 151 wanted for sexual assault .  in 2004 border patrol agents arrested almost 1.2 million illegal aliens with 11.6 percent of those apprehended in the san diego sector alone , despite the fact that the san diego sector is roughly 1 percent of our border area .  over the past 2 years , the three border patrol stations responsible for patrol of the existing 14 miles of border fence in the san diego sector have apprehended approximately 200 special interest aliens annually from countries such as afghanistan , iran , iraq , pakistan , and turkey .  completion of this fence will not only reduce the number of illegal crossings in the area but will also allow the border patrol to redeploy manpower and redirect precious resources to other important homeland security missions along the border .  and like the other border fence areas , the san diego sector can expect to see a reduction in crime , including murder , as well .  of the 14 miles authorized by congress several times , 9 miles of the triple fence have been completed .  but only in washington would people construct a fence with a big hole in it .  the final 3 1/2 miles has been held up due to bureaucratic red tape and lawsuits .  the border patrol has worked to alleviate the environmental concerns that have been raised .  in fact , the u.s. department of the interior 's fish and wildlife service concluded in july , 2003 , that construction of the fence `` is not likely to jeopardize '' the continued existence of any relevant endangered species in the area .  furthermore , not completing the fence will continue to cause other environmental damage in the area due to large numbers of persons crossing illegally through this area and subsequent pursuit by the border patrol , as well as large amounts of trash and refuse left in the wake of smugglers and illegal crossers .  as chairman of the committee on homeland security and a california resident , i am extremely concerned by the roadblocks that different bureaucratic groups have used to justify thwarting this important project .  for example , in september of 2003 , the san diego border patrol requested entry to a section of county-owned land located in the 3 1/2 mile section in dispute and located about 300 feet from the u.s.-mexican border in order to , first , improve the road for safety of the border patrol agents ; and , two , take soil samples in order to address environmental concerns pertaining to construction of the fence .  but the san diego county department of parks and recreation denied access , saying there was no authority to enter upon the land .  after months of negotiation , i have been told that the issue was finally resolved , but this clearly demonstrates that federal action is necessary to ensure that the fence is completed and that border security remains a priority .  the time for delay and bureaucratic obstruction is over .  we must complete this fence , and we must pass h.r. 418 .  mr. chairman , i reserve the balance of my time .  mr. chairman , i ask unanimous consent that debate be extended for 1 additional minute , to be divided equally between majority and minority .  mr. chairman , i reserve the balance of my time .  mr. chairman , i reserve the balance of my time .  mr. chairman , several provisions in this legislation are of particular interest to the committee on homeland security .  first , this spending bill will be procedurally consolidated with the real id act , which the house approved 261-161 on february 10 , 2005 .  we can not effectively fight terrorism if we can not verify the identity of people boarding airplanes , entering nuclear power plants , visiting the white house , or gaining access to any of the countless places a terrorist could use as a stage to multiply the effect of an attack .  accurate identification of individuals before permitting them access to critical infrastructure is a prerequisite to success .  the failure to ensure the integrity of identification documents that can be legally used to access critical infrastructure means that the entire process of checking ids is deeply flawed .  likewise , the time and effort of every law abiding citizen who waits in seemingly endless lines , first to obtain and then to present identification , is wasted .  document fraud is a crime against all americans who must tolerate the indignity of life in a post-9/11 world .  why must honest americans prove who we are , again and again , if terrorists and criminals are free to make a hash of this requirement ?  five weeks ago , the house approved the real id act , just as we did in the 108th congress .  in so doing , we responded to the challenge put before us by mir aimal kansi , who slaughtered five people at cia headquarters ; by ramzi yousef , who masterminded the first world trade center attack ; and by several of the 9/11 hijackers who would have found it far more difficult , if not impossible , to carry out their terror attacks had we prevented them from using false identification .  this spending bill also contains funding to secure our borders .  to secure our nation from nuclear attack , the legislation includes $ 55 million to detect nuclear material at foreign ports .  the megaports initiative is designed to interdict illicit traffic in nuclear and other radioactive materials .  by surveilling container shipping at high volume , high risk overseas ports , and by deploying radiation detection devices at our own ports of entry , america 's counter-terrorism strategy can succeed in a comprehensive defense of the global supply chain .  this bill also provides $ 38.97 million for the terrorist screening center .  this multi-agency homeland security effort is responsible for supporting the department of homeland security 's effort to screen passengers on both domestic and international flights .  this new funding will help the tsc to handle new requirements , such as the department of homeland security 's secure flight program .  mr. chairman , on september 11th , the terrorists did n't just use box cutters and airplanes to attack america , they used our own laws against us to help them murder thousands of people .  h.r. 418 , the real id act , will fix these loopholes in current law and also take steps to close gaping holes in our land borders , which are the first line of defense against terrorist infiltration , not just for the border states , but also for my home state of wyoming and the rest of the nation .  we all know how the 9/11 terrorists manipulated our asylum laws to stay in our country , and utilized lax drivers ' license standards to help them carry out their plans .  we know that human traffickers continue to take advantage of the gaps in our borders , helping terrorist and criminal aliens gain entry into our country .  yet some still question the need to turn this invaluable knowledge into meaningful action .  as an original cosponsor of the real id act , i ask my colleagues to look beyond the false rhetoric that has clouded this debate and realize what is really at stake -- the safety and security of our nation .  i refuse to gamble with the lives of american citizens , rolling the dice on flawed policies that have already failed to protect us against terrorism .  today we have the opportunity -- and more importantly , the responsibility -- to pass this legislation and make the terrorist handbook obsolete .  mr. chairman , i reject the statement made a minute ago that this is an anti-immigration bill .  i support the sensenbrenner bill .  i think security is a national issue .  but to suggest that this is an anti-immigrant bill is , in my opinion , wrong .  we support legal immigration into this country .  it is what has made this country so great .  but we also need to take care of security .  if you want to come in on a visa , you want to come in to be a citizen , support it .  but if you are here illegally , it is wrong .  each year i have one family , just last year , the father survived .  the wife died .  he lost a child to illegal immigrants .  i wish that was the only case .  each year we have several of these .  illegal immigrants driving and causing accidents , and people say , well , they are here ; they have got to go to work .  well , they will go to work if we can get them to be legal .  but not if they are here illegally .  if they are in this country illegally , they need to go out and come back legally with a visa or proper method .  and that is why i support the sensenbrenner bill , to make sure we do not have metricula cards , we do not have driver 's licenses to illegals , and that the driver 's license has a clip to ensure that it is proper by the federal government .  mr. chairman , i would say to my friend , the gentleman from california ( mr. farr )  , during the last debate i invited him to come down and look at the 7-mile area in that fence , because it is a problem .  i am looking forward to working with him , because if you are an environmentalist , it is hard pan .  i mean , it has totally destroyed the plants , the animals , the lizards , and it is like a venturi tube .  the gentleman from california ( mr. hunter )  first came to me in 1990 and asked where we could get landing mat , and we put that up .  why ?  because the number of rapes of mexicans who were coming across , the number of drugs that were coming across .  there is one strand of wire on the ground where you could just drive from one field to another with a loaded truck , and it has stopped a lot of that .  does the fence stop illegal immigration ?  no .  but it sure frees up a lot of the border patrol and makes it easier for them , and that 7 miles is like a venturi tube and it forces our border patrol into that area .  i agree with the gentleman from texas ( mr. reyes )  , and i am going to work with anybody over there , especially him , because he does have the expertise and he is a good friend .  i agree with him that the president 's budget does not include the funding .  but no clinton budget ever passed either , and we are going to add that ; and with the help of my friend , we are going to add the funding for those new border patrol .  mr. chairman , the gentleman from california ( mr. hunter )  talked about , in 1990 , when he came to me while i was still in the military asking me about landing mats to put up for the border .  he and i have actually been down there welding to get that up .  why ?  why would we do that ?  take this floor , if this was a farmer 's field and you had a single strand of wire that was lying on the ground , that is what separated the united states and mexico .  we had truckloads of drugs coming across in a 100-mile sector that we could not stop .  in 1 year , there were a number of rapes and a number of murders by the coyotes and people on the u.s. side of people trying to get across .  when my colleague arranged to put up that fence , it stopped all of it .  now , there are all kinds of ways in which you can stop something here in this body .  we can have hearings and say we are going to do this or that , but with the fence area , these 7 miles , another way is to waive the environmental things .  the gentleman from california ( mr. hunter )  also showed that president clinton did this .  if we do not do this , my colleagues , we will not get it done .  and it will help security .  documents that we have captured from al qaeda show that they consider the border vulnerable , with cells in mexico itself .  and so it is not just sealing off the border for security , but it is other things too .  in san diego , in california , we have about 800 , 000 illegals in k-through-12 education .  use half of that , use 400 , 000 .  that is $ 2 billion a year out of california .  that does not account for the $ 1.5 million a day for the school lunch .  now , i can not stop those kids .  i have been in those schools .  there is no way i would take that lunch away from those critters .  but we need to secure our border to stop the flow coming in .  if we know , with the bill of the gentleman from wisconsin ( mr. sensenbrenner )  , who is there legally , it is much easier to tell who is there illegally .  so i ask my colleagues to give this support because we really need to complete this .  mr. speaker , i have been flying wing on the gentleman from pennsylvania ( mr. murtha )  for about 14 years , and he has always got me home safely .  the gentleman from california ( mr. lewis )  and the gentleman from florida ( mr. young )  and his wife are out at bethesda in the hospitals every single day taking care of our troops .  there is no better team than the gentleman from florida ( mr. young )  and the gentleman from california ( mr. lewis )  and the gentleman from pennsylvania ( mr. murtha )  to make sure that our men and women are safe .  i have another great friend in the gentleman from wisconsin ( mr. obey )  .  and if we were back in the times of troy , i would be achilles , and he would be hector , and we would cross swords , but we would respect each other .  and there is one area , mr. obey , when you mentioned homeland security we can seat those swords .  the gentleman from california ( mr. cox )  is working on the abuses of the homeland security money .  that is being taken on .  i think we can work in a very bipartisan way to make sure that that happens .  i would like to thank the chairman for the border issues , that we have been able to secure our borders with this bill and provide for border patrol .  many of us have been working on this for years .  and the speaker has granted us that at the first must-pass bill we can bring this forward .  mr. chairman , i rise today out of frustration with h.r. 1268 , the emergency supplemental wartime appropriations act .  i support passage of this legislation , as i believe it is absolutely necessary to continue to fund the important activities of our brave men and women fighting the global war on terrorism .  our men and women depend on having the necessary equipment and systems to be successful in mission accomplishment .  as a member of the house armed services committee , i am actively involved in efforts , for example , to better protect our troops while they are in harm 's way .  with that said , the inclusion of spending projects within this bill that certainly do not qualify as either `` emergency '' or `` wartime '' is outrageous .  the issue at hand is not whether or not it is necessary to fund the noble efforts of our soldiers , for that answer is self-evident .  rather , the question is about our responsibility to spend the american people 's money wisely , and in a manner consistent with the established process .  i do not doubt that the non-wartime , and non-defense related projects in this bill are worthwhile ; however , the decision to fund these projects should be made during the established appropriations process .  certainly , it is inappropriate for this body to have to consider legislation under the guise of emergency , wartime spending , when in fact , that description is not completely honest .  again , i support this funding legislation as it pertains to the support of our military , and our efforts to protect american citizens , and to promote peace and democracy in the middle east .  however , i do not support the inclusion of unrelated projects within this bill , and find it most unfortunate that members of congress are forced to vote on such legislation .  mr. chairman , i yield myself such time as i may consume .  i rise today in support of h.r. 418 .  i want to thank my colleague from wisconsin for his leadership and tireless efforts to secure our nation 's borders .  last year , the congress passed the intelligence reform and terrorism prevention act , enacting into law many of the recommendations made by the 9/11 commission .  unfortunately , not all of the recommendations were included in the first round of legislation , which is why we are here today .  the gentleman from wisconsin ( chairman sensenbrenner ) and i committed to working together to make sure that one of the first orders of business considered by the house in the 109th congress would be to address some of the recommendations in our jurisdictions that the congress failed to address last year .  i want to use my time today to discuss the provisions contained in h.r. 418 that fall within the jurisdiction of the committee on government reform which i chair : security measures for federal acceptance of state-issued driver 's licenses and personal identification cards , commonly referred to as identity security .  last year 's 9/11 commission report identified a number of gaps and weaknesses in our nation 's intelligence and homeland security systems , providing recommendations for congress to consider in fixing these problems .  one of the most pressing recommendations proposed by the commission and one that fell within the jurisdiction of the committee on government reform appears on page 390 of the 9/11 commission report .  it is the following : secure identification should begin in the united states .  the federal government should set standards for the issuance of birth certificates and sources of identification , such as driver 's licenses .  fraud in identity documents is no longer just a problem of theft .  at many entry points to vulnerable facilities , including gates for boarding aircraft , sources of identification are the last opportunity to ensure that people are who they say they are and to check whether they are terrorists .  for terrorists , travel documents are as important as weapons .  the 9/11 hijackers relied on a wide variety of fraudulent documents .  we know that the 19 hijackers held 63 driver 's licenses or id cards .  based upon guidelines proposed by state motor vehicle administrators and adopted by a number of states throughout the country , our committee worked with other interested stakeholders to craft legislation that would establish minimum standards to be accepted of state-issued identification that could be used for federal purposes .  these important provisions were overwhelmingly passed by the house as part of h.r. 10 and heralded by the 9/11 victims ' families .  unfortunately , the house-passed provisions critical to strengthening identity security were dropped from the bill in conference .  instead , language was included that would set up a general framework for a federal role in this area , but the language was filled with so many loopholes and opt-out clauses for states that it really only made matters worse .  we find ourselves here today to correct these mistakes and to again enact meaningful reform .  h.r. 418 provides the congress with this opportunity .  our approach is very straightforward .  our legislation would set forth minimum document and issuance standards for federal acceptance of driver 's licenses and state-issued personal identification cards .  the legislation would provide 3 years for states to come into compliance with these standards if their driver 's licenses are to be recognized for federal government purposes and their documents as proof of an individual 's identity .  as the 9/11 commission concluded , fraud in identity documents is no longer just a problem of theft .  as we continue to strengthen our intelligence function to better identify and track terrorists , those individuals will be forced to find ways to conceal their identity in order to avoid detection .  we know that the 9/11 hijackers used the united states as their staging area for training and preparation in the year prior to the attacks , traveling into and out of and around the country with little fear of capture .  in fact , several of the hijackers lived less than 15 miles away from this building while making final preparations for their attack .  we are dedicated to making sure we do not provide such a hospitable environment in the future .  as chairman of the committee that oversees federalism issues , i am mindful of concerns about the federal government imposing burdens on states , so-called unfunded mandates .  my response is threefold .  one is that this is a national security issue that requires a unified national response rather than 50 separate responses .  secondly , the legislation authorizes grants to states to conform to the minimum standards set forth in the act .  third , i am confident that these minimum standards will not be a heavy lift for a majority of the states in our nation .  it is the handful of states that continue to have lax security standards more than 3 years after 9/11 that may have the most work to do .  it is crucial that we do everything we can to enhance the security of the american people , and this important legislation takes a significant step in frustrating terrorists ' attempts to integrate into our society .  i urge my colleagues to support h.r. 418 and strengthen identity security .  mr. chairman , i reserve the balance of my time .  mr. chairman , may i inquire of the time on each side .  mr. chairman , i yield myself such time as i may consume .  i note on page 390 of the 9/11 commission report , it recommends secure identification should begin in the united states .  the federal government should set standards for the issuance of birth certificates and sources of identification such as driver 's licenses .  mr. chairman , i look forward to working with the gentleman from virginia ( mr. moran )  on this issue as we move forward .  mr. chairman , i yield myself such time as i may consume .  let me just sum up and say this does not require anything from the states as far as driver 's licenses go .  states do not have to do anything under this for their driver 's licenses .  they can issue driver 's licenses to whomever they want .  but if they intend to use those licenses for federal purposes , we have a right to say what the criteria should be and under those circumstances , they are going to have to show legal presence .  it is not anti-immigrant .  in fact , this allows the states to issue two different sets : one for illegal immigrants , one for everyone else .  it takes the national security issue away from the argument there .  finally , the opt-out provisions in the current legislation that was passed just a few months ago are disastrous .  we were worse with the 9/11 response that passed this congress than we were without it .  this rectifies that .  it closes that loophole .  out of respect for the victims , the families , the work of the 9/11 commission , i urge my colleagues to support this legislation .  mr. speaker , i rise today in strong support of the conference report on h.r. 1268 and urge all my colleagues to support it .  in addition to necessary funding for our troops , tsunami disaster relief , and border security ; this conference report also includes important provisions to bring long-overdue , common sense reform to drivers ' licenses and state-issued identification cards , authored last year by the government reform committee in response to a recommendation of the 9-11 commission .  mr. speaker , i want to especially thank the speaker and majority leader for making good on their promise to get this legislation to the floor signed into law quickly in the 109th congress .  i also want to thank my colleague from california , the chairman of the appropriations committee , for his strong support and for agreeing to include these provisions in h.r , 1268 .  finally , i would like to thank my colleague from wisconsin for his tireless work and support on this issue , last year following passage of the 9-11 commission recommendations implementation act , he and i made a commitment to work together to ensure that the most important provisions not addressed in the final bill would be addressed early in the 109th congress .  that commitment is being fulfilled today .  judging by the basic nature of these requirements as well as the actions taken by some states , it is quite obvious that not enacting these reforms does not come from a lack of ability , but from a lack of will .  the federal government can not continue to allow our security responsibilities to be compromised by the inaction of a few .  our approach is very straightforward .  building upon guidelines and best practices established and accepted by state motor vehicle administrators , the federal government 's long-standing work on identity security , and actions taken by individual states to shore up their licensing process following the terrorist attacks ; our legislation sets forth minimum document and issuance standards for federal acceptance of driver 's licenses and state-issued personal identification cards .  the legislation provides three years for states to come into compliance with these standards in order for the federal government to recognize their documents as proof of an individual 's identity .  let me make one thing perfectly clear .  states that want their drivers ' licenses to be used for federal identification purposes will be required to meet these standards .  all of them .  if they do not , the citizens of that state will not be able to use their driver 's license to identify themselves for many purposes that they use them for today , such as boarding an airplane .  the bill and the report make clear that the secretary must determine the uses , in addition to those set forth in the bill , for which drivers licenses only from complying states will be accepted .  importantly , the final bill makes clear that the secretary of homeland security will be responsible for ensuring that the certifications represent full compliance .  this requirement ensures that the national security interests of the united states will be protected through enforcement of the requirements of the bill .  states will also be required to confirm the applicant 's proof of legal presence in the united states .  currently , only 11 states lack such a requirement , meaning a majority of states have already recognized the need for tighter standards , but unnecessary and dangerous gaps in the system still exist .  importantly , states are still permitted to issue drivers ' licenses to individuals who are not lawfully present in the united states or who can not provide satisfactory proof of identity .  the ability of states to have such a system is currently under challenge in court , and this legislation will provide them with express authority .  the bill further provides that these licenses or identification cards must be clearly visually differentiated from other licenses and contain specific language regarding their validity for federal identification and other official purposes .  in addition , the legislation will require identity documents to expire at the same time as the expiration of lawful entry status -- this will prevent individuals who have illegally entered or are unlawfully present in the united states from having valid identification documents .  this loophole was highlighted on september 11th , as nawaf al hazmi and hani hanjour , the pilots of flight 77 , both obtained licenses and identification cards after the expiration of their visa authorization .  we must correct this dangerous problem before we again give individuals who have overstayed their visas the tools they need to integrate into society and carry out criminal and terrorist acts .  mr. speaker , it is important to note that these actions are consistent with actions taken by individual states to date .  for example , nevada and new mexico do not accept , as proof of identity , a state-issued driver license or identification card from states that do not meet their own standards .  the federal government has been delinquent in dealing with this issue , but we are correcting that problem today .  fraud in identity documents is no longer just a problem of theft .  as we continue to strengthen our intelligence function to better identify and track terrorists , those individuals will be forced to find ways to conceal their identity in order to avoid detection .  we must be able to establish , as close to certainty as we can , that people are who they say they are , and in order to do so the federal government must have documents that it can trust .  in fact , we would not be fulfilling our security role for the american people if we did not .  mr. speaker , i urge my colleagues to support these important provisions and the passage of this conference report .  mr. speaker , i thank the distinguished whip , the gentleman from maryland , for yielding to me .  mr. speaker , the house will convene on tuesday at 2 p.m .  for legislative business .  we will consider several measures under suspension of the rules .  a final list of those bills will be sent to members ' offices by the end of the week .  any votes called on those measures will be rolled until 6 : 30 p.m .  on wednesday and thursday , the house will convene at 10 a.m .  we likely will consider additional legislation under suspension of the rules , as well as h.r. 418 , the real id act of 2005 .  finally , i would like to remind members that we do not plan , do not plan , to have votes next friday , february 11 .  that is correct .  that is correct .  we are contemplating several major pieces of legislation that we would hope to complete before the easter break , and we are also contemplating several bills that we contemplate completing prior to the presidents ' day district work period .  the comprehensive energy bill , which we passed in the last congress and in the 107th congress , is a very high priority for this year .  there is a good chance that we could consider a national energy policy bill before the presidents ' day district work period .  well , mr. speaker , if the gentleman will continue to yield , i would just say that the gentleman is right .  we will try our best to reach out and make this bill as bipartisan as possible .  i would just remind the gentleman that this bill , this energy package , has passed , i can not recall every time , but many times in the last congress ; and it even passed this house as a conference report .  each time that the energy bill has gone through this house , whether it be the house bill or in the conference report , it has enjoyed a very large democrat vote .  so , yes , i would hope that the chairmen of the respective committees that have a piece of this bill , and i would also remind the gentleman that the committee on ways and means has a very big piece of this bill , would reach out to their ranking members and work to put together as bipartisan a bill as possible .  i appreciate the gentleman yielding to me , mr. speaker .  we have not discussed any rule .  actually , we are discussing with the relevant committee chairmen whether we can get it that quickly or not .  but i would imagine that the committee on rules would have the same sort of rule that we have had on this bill for the last couple of years .  so i would not see anything changing .  mr. chairman , i would just say to my good friend from texas ( mr. reyes )  , who is an expert , and we all value his input , we are going to do immigration reform in this congress .  we are looking forward to working with him on immigration reform .  but what we are here today about is border security , border security and closing loopholes .  i just want to thank both sides of the aisle for the thoughtful way that they have conducted this debate .  i want to thank the gentleman from wisconsin ( chairman sensenbrenner ) and the gentleman from virginia ( chairman tom davis ) and the gentleman from california ( chairman cox ) for their hard work in getting this bill to the floor so early in the new session .  of all of the issues being debated before us today , the controversy i find most confusing is the section regarding the standardization of driver 's licenses .  after all , mr. chairman , the war on terror is not being fought in a vacuum .  there was a time , to be sure , when identification fraud was a matter of concern principally to bouncers and bartenders , but that was before september 11 , 2001 .  since that day , mr. chairman , id fraud has represented a clear and present danger to the national security of the united states , plain and simple .  without standards for the issuance or content of driver 's licenses , the american people are needlessly put at risk .  as long as america boasts the civilized world 's most open laws concerning immigration and mobility while remaining its greatest terrorist target , we must ensure that people coming in and out of our country are not here to do our people harm .  when someone enters this country and can get a driver 's license , he can board a plane , open a bank account , and get a job .  if he plans to do these things not to make a better life for himself , but with the express intent of killing americans , and that treachery could be curbed simply by reforming the way we issue driver 's licenses , how can we not ?  the real id act requires that applicants for driver 's licenses prove that they are in the united states legally , very simple , and that a foreign traveler 's license expires with his visa .  these are hardly draconian measures , mr. chairman , nor are the sections of the bill that strengthen our deportation and asylum processes .  these processes are not just loopholes ; they are gaping , yawning chasms in the law waiting to be exploited .  they are risks , threats even , to the security of our homeland and to our success in the war on terror .  the reforms in the real id act are overdue , no less an authority than the 9/11 commission itself says so .  so i just urge all of my colleagues to support this legislation to further help ensure that such events as three septembers ago never again scar our homeland .  mr. speaker , i rise in strong support of this rule , which will simply allow us to consider general debate , and in 7 minutes we are going to be up in the committee on rules considering a number of those issues that the gentleman from florida just raised , deciding what it is that we will debate here on the house floor tomorrow .  so the process is still ongoing and members are involved in that , and it is one that we look forward to considering before too long .  i want to congratulate the gentleman from dallas , texas ( mr. sessions )  for his very strong commitment to all homeland security issues , a top priority .  and i will say , mr. speaker , that border security is a critically important aspect of the number one priority that we have at the federal level .  the five most important words in the middle of the preamble of the u.s. constitution are `` provide for the common defense , '' and securing our borders is a priority , and it should be of any sovereign nation .  the gentleman from wisconsin ( mr. sensenbrenner )  and i had the privilege of serving as conferees last fall as we sought to implement the recommendations of the 9/11 commission .  unfortunately , our friends in the other body decided not to include provisions that would provide guidelines to ensure that the likes of mohammed atta who flew a plane into the world trade center just days before he was to appear in court because of a traffic violation that he had had with a driver 's license , that was something that we felt strongly should have been incorporated to rectify that in the 9/11 commission recommendations .  unfortunately , our colleagues in the other body chose to ignore that .  the gentleman from california ( mr. ose ) worked hard to ensure that we would be able to complete the 3 1/2 -mile gap through what is known as smugglers gulch , an area that is today devastated environmentally because people cross the border illegally .  unfortunately , our colleagues in the other body refused to accept that .  both of those things were issues that were of concern to the 9/11 commission ; and if we look at the 9/11 commission report , they make it very clear that we need to address these kinds of issues as they relate to border security .  so what we decided , of course , at the end , as we prepare to implement that , was that we would , as soon as the 109th congress convened , proceed with passage of this very important aspect of our border security and , by virtue of that , our national security .  that is why i think this measure should enjoy strong bipartisan support .  this is an issue that democrats and republicans alike can come together on to ensure that we do , we do , secure our borders .  so i think that we have a wonderful opportunity here to deal with border security .  the issue of immigration reform is another question .  i am supporting this effort on border security in part because i am convinced that we will be able to , down the road and i hope soon , address the immigration reform question .  i happen to believe that it is important for us to identify the people who are here in this country illegally .  and , yes , i am opposed to granting blanket amnesty , as is president bush , but i do believe that moving in the direction of some sort of worker program is something that we must look at and must address .  but we are taking a proper step in finally doing what we wanted to have incorporated in the 9/11 commission package that we passed out of here , and i congratulate all my colleagues who have been involved in this .  mr. chairman , i rise today in support of the real id act , and i thank the chairman for his courage and hard work on this vital measure .  over a decade ago , the ability of ramzi yousef , the mastermind behind the 1993 world trade center bombing to be granted asylum and to move freely in the country should have signaled that something was terribly wrong with our system .  it did not , and 8 years later , 19 terrorists collectively carrying a total of 63 valid u.s. driver 's licenses , boarded planes to finish yousef 's work .  it is now over 3 years since that tragic september 11th .  today , we are considering a vital piece of legislation to address three key failures of current security policy .  first , the real id act mandates standards to obtain driver 's licenses ; second , it tightens our nation 's asylum laws , which easily allow suspected terrorists into our nation ; and finally , it addresses the need to secure our borders .  these concepts are not rocket science .  the need for these reforms has been reiterated over and over , and in expert testimony , in anecdotal evidence from security professionals , in scholarly research and in evidence presented from our nation 's justice and military personnel .  but the fact of the matter is , the most compelling reason to pass this bill is just plain old common sense .  we can not repeat enough what the 9/11 commission said : `` for terrorists , travel documents are as important as weapons. '' they are right .  they also said , `` it is elemental to border security to know who is coming into the country. '' today , more than 9 million people have entered the united states outside the legal immigration system .  the security chain protecting america is only as good as its weakest link .  it does not take a congressman or a national security expert to tell you this .  most americans know that despite the rhetoric we hear against this bill , as long as we ignore the need for border security , we place them and their families at risk .  i strongly urge my colleagues to vote in favor of the real id act .  mr. speaker , i rise in strong support of h.r. 1268 making supplemental appropriations to ensure that our forces who are hard at work in iraq and afghanistan , and elsewhere , have the tools they need to do their job , and are well protected .  mr. speaker , this week we witnessed the establishment of iraq 's first democratically elected government in over half a century and their swearing in .  this event is yet another historic milestone in iraq 's progress toward a representative and transparent government .  but even as we see important movement toward democracy , we are reminded that `` freedom is not free. '' as those of us who have seen war know , it is paid first by the sacrifices of those who serve .  their courage is our inspiration .  we wish them godspeed , swift victory and safe return .  however , while it pales in comparison to the sacrifices of our brave men and women in the field , there is another part of the equation .  and it is before us today .  with this legislation , congress is acting decisively to ensure that our soldiers , sailors and airmen have the resources they need to keep iraq on the road back to the community of civilized nations .  this bill contains over $ 76 billion to support military activities .  this sum will : pay for the troop deployment ; repair and replace damaged vehicles being chewed up in an extreme harshly operating environment ; replenish stores of munitions and supplies ; and provide additional armor for vehicles , improved communications gear and more night-vision equipment .  i would also add that this bill also provides over $ 60 million for additional electronic devices designed to protect our forces from the `` weapon of choice '' of the insurgents -- ieds .  mr. speaker , this `` wartime supplemental '' appropriations bill meets our military , humanitarian and foreign policy requirements .  we have every reason to be proud of young men and women at war .  every single word of praise uttered on this floor today is justified .  but while our young men and women in uniform appreciate our vocal support , they need this bill .  it will provide them with the tools they need to get their job done as quickly as possible so they can return home to their families .  i commend mr. lewis , the chairman of the appropriations committee -- the gentleman from california -- for his leadership .  and i urge passage of the legislation .  mr. speaker , i thank the gentleman for yielding me the time .  mr. speaker , i want to thank both the chairman and the ranking member for this bill , especially for its iraqi dollars , because this bill analyzes microscopically the kinds of equipment that is needed there now , and then surgically targets those dollars in a vastly efficient manner for our troops .  the bill also deals with healing the wounds of both mind and body of those soldiers who are returning .  the bill also deals with small businesses being able , through the h-2b process , to hire legal workers .  and the bill also deals with enhanced technology for the tsunami situation that we saw so much , months ago .  i want to thank the gentleman from california ( mr. lewis )  for the legislation , and i urge its adoption .  mr. speaker , i would like to address the $ 17 million included in the supplemental that we are considering today , which will support the expansion of the u.s. tsunami warning network .  these funds will help noaa to procure and deploy tsunami detection buoys in a system designed to provide continuous tsunami warning capability for both the pacific and atlantic coasts of the united states .  detection is a critical part of a warning system which i hope will ultimately include a comprehensive approach to educating communities about , and preparing them for , tsunamis .  comprising 70 percent of the earth 's surface area , our oceans support a growing source of protein for many developing countries , promising sources of medicines , and efficient transport of goods between continents and among nations .  they also strongly influence our climate and weather and provide economic and unmeasurable quality of life benefits .  for proof of this , one only needs to know that the u.s. coasts support over 50 percent of the u.s. population and comprise only 17 percent of our land base .  when south asia was struck by tsunami waves on december 26 , the world 's interest in tsunami detection and warning systems was heightened .  the impact of these waves was felt around the world , and the tragedy of its immediate effect on indian ocean coastlines has painfully exposed our lack of ability to provide early warning and coastal community education and support .  many lifelong residents of indian ocean coastal towns fear the sea -- the primary source of their livelihoods for generations .  it is critical that individuals in high-risk areas are educated about and prepared for tsunamis before they strike .  coastal communities need assurance that technology exists and will be applied to increase warnings for such events and to prepare them for evacuation to avoid catastrophic loss of human life .  in contrast , developed nations use increasing technological sophistication to acquire from the sea its bounty -- with little thought for the long-term sustainability of this activity .  in time , without increased understanding of our ocean ecosystems and the impact of our harvest and extraction of its resources , developed nations may also come to fear the sea .  the antidote to the disease of fear is understanding .  new technologies have already led to enormous advances in our understanding of the coastal and marine environment .  however , advanced sensors have been deployed only on relatively small scales , and the systems that are deployed have not been coordinated into an integrated system that will optimize our understanding of the oceans .  since the u.s. hosted the earth observation summit in july 2003 , we have been working with our partner nations to adopt a comprehensive , coordinated and sustained earth observation system to collect and disseminate data , information and models for more effective and responsible use of our resources as well as to inform decision-makers about impending disasters .  most recently , the u.s. commission on ocean policy made an integrated ocean observing system a top recommendation in its report , an ocean blueprint for the 21st century .  our space exploration and our weather programs show that when our scientists and the nation support a program and devote time , money and , most importantly , the human mind into these types of endeavors we are highly successful .  the ocean , however , is often referred to as the last frontier , a place where we continue to find new organisms and species and where we still struggle to understand the profound implications for climate changes and more direct impacts of the oceans on our human habitats .  there is perhaps no more motivating event , no louder a voice for attention and understanding than having the ocean engulf human habitats .  our failure to fully develop and utilize our technology to understand our oceans has many more implications , including the potential for permanent damage to fragile and complex ecosystems that have generously provided us with food , medicines , recreation , and other benefits .  we are now awake to the power of the ocean , and it is my hope that we will use this opportunity to move more quickly toward integrated data collection and dissemination systems , as well as intensive education of coastal communities , to ensure that we and future generations can look to the sea for inspiration , sustenance , and life-giving support .  i strongly support the inclusion of these funds to increase global monitoring capacity and public awareness about tsunamis and other disasters , particularly if they add to capacity of ocean monitoring as part of the global earth observation system of systems ( geoss ) .  mr. speaker , i thank my colleague on the committee on rules .  i rise in full support of the rule and the underlying bill .  i remind my colleagues on the other side of the aisle , who keep saying , we are not given enough time and we are rushing all of these complicated issues that we have not discussed , but these provisions i remind my colleagues , they were in the original bill that we passed on the house side , the intel bill .  unfortunately , they were taken out by the senate conferees .  we are asking to do the things that the 9/11 commission , all 10 of them , in their unanimous report , asked us to do .  listen to this : `` if terrorist travel options are reduced , they may be forced to rely on means of interaction which can be more easily monitored and to resort to travel documents which are more readily detectable. '' the 9/11 commission report , page 65 , `` all but one of the 9/11 hijackers acquired some form of united states identification document , some by fraud. '' acquisition of these forms of identification would have assisted them in boarding commercial flights , renting cars , and other necessary activities .  the 9/11 commission report , page 390 , `` my daughter worked at the republican convention this summer .  i worried about her .  unbeknownst to me , during the convention an illegal alien from pakistan was picked up and arrested for attempting to bomb the herald square subway station .  she rode on that subway every day going back and forth to work. '' he was quoted as saying , `` i want at least 1 , 000 to 2 , 000 to die in a single day. '' and that alien had applied for asylum .  mr. speaker , these are sensible provisions .  we are completing the work of the intel bill , and i support it .  we need to get it done and we need bipartisan support .  mr. speaker , i am not on the committee on the judiciary .  mr. speaker , i wanted to come to the floor today to speak in favor of reforming our system for asylum and against the move to strike the necessary reforms incorporated in h.r. 418 .  it has been suggested throughout out this debate yesterday and today that because there is no specific recommendation made by the 9-11 commission to reform our asylum system that we in congress should do nothing to fix it .  that in my opinion is insane .  my colleagues and friends on the other side of the isle suggest we stick our heads in the sand and ignore one of the tools used by terrorists to gain access to and remain in our country .  make no mistake , the 9-11 commission report does specifically state that our asylum system was and is used by terrorists to carry out their schemes to kill americans .  let me quote from the report and its accompanying statements : the report states , speaking of the first trade center bombing , `` ... ..ramazi yousef , who had also entered with fraudulent documents but claimed political asylum and was admitted .  it quickly became clear that yousef had been a central player in the attack .  he had fled to pakistan immediately after the bombing and would remain at large for nearly two years. '' later in the report it talks about the outdated immigration benefits system , `` ... ..when doris meissner became ins commissioner in 1993 , she found ... ..  the asylum and other benefits systems did not effectively deter fraudulent applicants .  finally , `` terrorists in the 1990s , as well as the september 11 hijackers , needed to find a way to stay in or embed themselves in the united states if their operational plans were to come to fruition. '' `` this could be accomplished ... ..  by applying for asylum after entering .  in many cases , the act of filing for an immigration benefit ( such as claiming asylum ) sufficed to permit the alien to remain in the country until the petition was adjudicated .  terrorists were free to conduct surveillance , coordinate operations , obtain and receive funding , go to school and learn english , make contacts in the united states , acquire necessary materials , and execute an attack. '' so , if i am to understand my friends on the other side , we are to ignore the problem of asylum abuse and do nothing .  mr. chairman , i rise today in support of h.r. 418 , the real id act .  i supported the intelligence reform and terrorism prevention act last december .  that legislation helped to streamline the intelligence community and tightened some asylum rules that allowed potential terrorists to remain in our country .  that was a good bill , but it did not go far enough .  so i am pleased that the house is debating h.r. 418 -- a bill that i believe will continue to strengthen our borders , further improve identification standards , and close even more asylum loopholes .  we know that mohamed atta and his gang of terrorists exploited weak identification rules , and , as stated in the 9/11 commission report , `` all but one of the 9/11 hijackers acquired some form of identification document , some by fraud. '' h.r. 418 will require that federal agencies only accept licenses and state-issued id cards when states have determined that the holder is lawfully present in the country .  the bill will also require that temporary visitors to our country receive only temporary identification , and that this identification expire when the terms of the visit expire .  mr. chairman , this only makes sense .  i am also pleased that this bill further reforms our asylum system , a system that has unfortunately been ripe for corruption for years .  we are also addressing the san diego border fence issue and will ensure the expeditious completion of the border fence .  further , the bill makes aliens deportable for terrorism-related offenses .  incredibly , current law provided that not all terrorism-related grounds for keeping an alien out of the country are also grounds for deportion .  this bill closes that loophole .  the simple fact is that we need to secure our borders .  today 's bill is another step toward this effort and i believe it will make our country safer .  i urge my colleagues to support the real id act .  mr. chairman , i come to the floor today to speak in support of the real id act .  it is clear that in order to secure our country from terrorists we need to reform the requirements and standards for driver 's licenses .  a valid driver 's license is like a hall pass that allows terrorists to easily roam throughout the united states .  indeed 19 terrorists did just that with dozens of legal driver 's licenses and identification cards .  the hijackers used these ids to rent cars and apartments , open bank accounts , take flying lessons , and otherwise blend into american society while they planned their attacks .  those terrorists murdered 3 , 000 americans and yet this gap still remains open .  in every state , the driver 's license ( and its counterpart , the state id card ) is the primary document used to establish identity and proof of legal residence .  making driver 's licenses accessible to illegal aliens gives them the means to pass themselves off as legal residents of the united states .  additionally , the real id act does not create a national id card .  in addition to establishing standards for the issuance of licenses , h.r. 418 includes provisions to prevent terrorists from gaming our asylum system .  court decisions in recent years have so distorted the asylum process that terrorists are now able to claim asylum specifically because they are terrorists .  this legislation represents a critical first step toward gaining control over our borders and protecting american lives .  these are common-sense measures that should be implemented immediately .  terrorism may have no borders , but we can certainly make it more difficult for terrorists to cross ours .  having a uniform policy that relies on common sense will do more to keep america open and free than having a policy that relies on hope .  mr. chairman , i move to strike the last word and enter into a brief colloquy with the gentleman from arizona ( mr. kolbe )  .  mr. chairman , i believe it is important that all groups and organizations that want to assist in the recovery are allowed to participate .  the united states agency for international development issued a regulation on october 19 , 2004 , that ensures religious organizations are allowed to compete on an equal footing with other nongovernmental organizations for usaid funding , in the case of this bill , funding to help tsunami victims .  can the chairman clarify whether the appropriations under this bill fall under such regulation ?  mr. chairman , reclaiming my time , i thank the gentleman .  i appreciate his response , and i am very pleased to know that faith-based groups will have the same opportunity to compete for these important dollars with other nongovernmental entities so that together this funding can be used to alleviate the suffering of the tsunami victims .  i thank the gentleman .  mr. speaker , the real id act completes the mission of the 9/11 commission recommendations by implementing common sense reforms to strengthen our borders security and better protect our homeland .  driver 's licenses have become the primary identification document in the united states , enabling individuals to get other identity documents , transfer funds to a u.s. bank account , obtain access to federal buildings and other vulnerable facilities , purchase a firearm , rent a car and board a plane .  lax standards and loopholes in the current issuance processes allow terrorists to obtain driver 's licenses -- often multiple licenses from different states -- and abuse the license for identification purposes .  the sept 11th hijackers had , within their possession , at least 15 valid drivers licenses and numerous state issued identity cards with a large variety of addresses .  identification documents are the last opportunity to ensure that people are who they say they are and to check whether they are terrorists .  the real id act would require applicants to provide proof they are in the country legally .  currently , eleven states do not have such a requirement , meaning a majority of states have already recognized the need for tighter standards , but unnecessary and dangerous gaps in the system still exist .  the real id act would require identity documents to expire at the same time as the expiration of lawful entry status , preventing those who have illegally entered or are unlawfully present in the u.s. from having valid identification documents .  states would still issue driver 's licenses and identification cards and would control their own driver database .  the 9-11 commission 's staff report on `` 9-11 and terrorist travel '' found that `` a number of terrorists .  .  .  abused the asylum system '' .  examples of terrorists abusing our asylum laws : the `` blind sheik '' , sheik omar abdel rahman , led a plot to bomb new york city landmarks .  rahman used an asylum application to avoid deportation to egypt after all other means of remaining in the u.s. failed .  the 9/11 commission staff report noted than an immigration judge held a hearing on rahman 's asylum claim weeks before his followers bombed the worid trade center .  during the republican convention last august , an illegal alien from pakistan was picked up and arrested for attempting to bomb the herald square subway station and plotting to bomb the verrazano narrows bridge .  he was quoted as saying that `` i want at least 1 , 000 to 2 , 000 to die in one day. '' the alien had applied for asylum .  a number of courts , specifically the 9th circuit court has severely undermined current authorities by limiting the factors that judges can consider when assessing the credibility of an alien seeking asylum .  this impairment encourages asylum fraud .  the real id act would strengthen judges ' ability to determine whether the asylum seeker is truthful .  this provision codifies the factors immigration judges use to assess credibility and prevents the 9th circuit from further undermining our national security .  in 1996 congress approved building the 14 mile long san diego border fence on the mexico-u.s. border , right next to a major u.s. navy base .  the san diego sector covers an area of more than 7 , 000 square miles and contains 66 linear miles of international border with mexico .  directly to the south of the san diego sector area of responsibility lie the mexican cities of tijuana and tecate , which have a combined population of more than two million .  for decades , this area had been the preferred corridor for entry into the united states by unknown or undocumented persons due to the highly populated cities north and south of the border , as well as relatively quick access to national transportation hubs such as lax .  construction of the fence was halted when radical environmentalists claimed that the area was a habitat of a rare bird .  as a result , eight years later , the fence remains incomplete and is an opportunity for aliens to cross the border illegally .  this incomplete fence allows border security gaps to remain open .  we must close these gaps because they remain a threat to our national security .  the real id act will require the completion of this important security fence .  under current immigration laws , prohibitions on some terrorist-related activities only apply to aliens who are trying to enter the u.s. , but not to those who already reside within our borders .  therefore , if an alien seeking a visa has been found to participate in certain terrorist-related activity , he/she is prohibited from entering the u.s. but if an alien is found to have participated in the same terrorist activity in the u.s. , he/she may not be deportable .  the real id act would finally make the laws consistent by providing that all terrorist-related offenses and making aliens inadmissible which would also be grounds for their deportation .  the real id act provides that any alien contributing funds to a terrorist organization would be deportable .  mr. speaker , i thank the chairman for this time .  i rise in strong support of this conference report as the people 's house at long last takes care of some unfinished business .  in the closing days of the 108th congress , some in the other body objected to commonsense provisions that deal with our national security and our border security , to wit , the notion that when you apply for a driver 's license or another legal document , you should be who you say you are , and you should enjoy legal status in this country .  this supplemental conference report includes the real id act , and at long last the congress of the united states gets real and understands that border security and national security are one and the same .  pass this to help protect our borders and help protect our national security .  mr. chairman , i rise to express my strong support of h.r. 418 .  chairman sensenbrenner has presented for the consideration of the house a commonsense bill that will disrupt travel of would-be terrorists who would seek to do us harm right here in america .  when enacted , these provisions will be yet another set of effective tools to help prevent another september 11-type attack .  all of these provisions are derived from provisions of the house-passed version of h.r. 10 , the 9-11 recommendations implementation act of 2004 .  during the conference with the other body on what became the intelligence reform and terrorism prevention act of 2004 , the provisions contained in h.r. 418 were either dropped in their entirety or modified so substantially as to virtually defeat the fundamental purpose of the provision .  a majority of the conferees on the part of the house very reluctantly agreed in order to get a conference agreement on the fundamental reform of the nation 's intelligence community .  we are all original cosponsors of h.r. 418 .  as chairman of the conference , i thought that these provisions made sense then and they make sense now and should be enacted .  the core provisions of h.r. 418 establish a set of fundamental standards that state-issued identification cards , including driver 's license , must meet to be recognized for federal identification purposes , such as entering a federal building .  the bill provides the various states with 3 years to make any necessary modifications to their identification cards , if they so chose .  the bill provides the secretary of homeland security with discretion to extend the deadline for good cause upon application by an individual state .  the bill does not impede the authority of individual states to determine who may operate a motor vehicle or who may be issued a state personal identification card for non-federal purposes .  some argue that the intelligence reform and terrorism prevention act of 2004 already addresses this issue adequately .  i simply disagree .  the enacted provision requires a negotiated rulemaking process , without any absolute certitude that the negotiations on the proposed consensus regulations will be concluded by the date specified in the act .  no hard date for implementation of these fundamental standards is specified .  h.r. 418 also restores the authority of an immigration judge to make a determination whether to grant or deny an individual application for asylum .  at its core , the provision makes explicit the judge 's authority to assess the creditability of the assertions of oppression being made by the applicant , just as judges and juries do each day with respect to criminal defendants .  as some assert , h.r. 418 does not require the asylum applicant to produce documentary evidence in order to be granted asylum .  it grants an immigration judge the authority to request the applicant to provide evidence to support the applicant 's oral testimony and that of witnesses ' supporting the applicant .  h.r. 418 clearly states that the applicant is not required to provide documentary evidence if `` the applicant does not have the evidence or can not obtain the evidence without departing the united states. '' h.r. 418 includes a provision specifying that offenses which currently provide grounds to deny a would-be terrorist entry into the united states are also grounds for the deportation of such persons , if they have somehow managed to enter the country illegally .  today , that is not the case .  this glaring gap in the law must be closed .  finally , h.r. 418 provides the secretary of homeland security with authority to waive environmental laws , so that the border fence running 14 miles east from the pacific ocean at san diego may finally be completed .  authorized by congress in 1996 , it has yet to be completed because of on-going environmental litigation .  it is time to complete this much needed barrier to help secure one of the most used corridors for illegal entry , which is adjacent to the numerous facilities of the united states navy and marine corps in san diego .  mr. chairman , i commend chairman sensenbrenner for his leadership and urge my colleagues to support h.r. 418 .  mr. chairman , i rise in support of h.r. 418 , the real id act .  the real id act incorporates four of the 9/11 commission recommendations that are necessary to effectively protect our constituents from terrorists seeking to exploit loopholes in our immigration system .  this bill will close several of those dangerous loopholes .  in addition to providing important federal security guidelines for driver 's licenses , the real id act also includes other important homeland security measures , including the deportability of terrorists , preventing terrorists from gaming the asylum system , and implementing border security measures in san diego .  currently , the terrorists and their supporters can be kept out of the united states ; but as soon as they set foot into the u.s. on tourist visas , we can not deport them for many of the very same offenses .  this hinders our ability to protect americans from those alien terrorists who have infiltrated the united states .  h.r. 418 makes aliens deportable for the same terrorist-related offenses as those that would prevent them from being admitted to the united states in the first place .  another deficiency in current law is based on a flawed understanding of how terrorist organizations operate .  the immigration and nationality act now reads that if an alien provides funding or other material support to a terrorist organization , the alien can escape deportation if they can show that he did not know that the funds or support would further the organization 's terrorist activity ; i.e. , his donation did not immediately go to buying explosives .  as kenneth mckune , former associate coordinator for counterterrorism at the state department , explained , `` given the purposes , organizational structure , and clandestine nature of foreign terrorist organizations , it is highly likely that any material support to these organizations will ultimately inure to the benefit of their criminal , terrorist functions , regardless of whether such support was ostensibly intended to support nonviolent , nonterrorist activities. '' money given to terrorist organizations is fungible .  senator diane feinstein has rightly stated that `` i simply do not accept that so-called humanitarian works by terrorist groups can be kept separate from their other operations .  i think the money will ultimately go to bombs and bullets rather than babies , or , because money is fungible , it will free up other funds to be used on terrorist activities. '' the real id act is written so that an alien who provides funds or other material support to a terrorist organization would be deportable unless he did not know and should not reasonably have known that the organization was a terrorist organization .  mr. chairman , i urge the support and passage of h.r. 418 .  mr. chairman , i thank the gentleman for yielding me the time .  we started this fence about 20 years ago .  we started it by building the first steel fence across that 14-mile segment between the coastal hills of san diego county and the pacific ocean .  we did that because drug trucks were running that border at the rate of about 300 per month .  we had about 10 people being murdered each year , along with numerous robberies and rapes , to such a high degree that the best-selling book , `` lines and shadows '' by joseph wambaugh , was written depicting this `` no man 's land , '' where nobody wanted to be after dark .  so we built that first line , which was the steel fence right on the border .  we then built the second fence , that is , the second tier of the so-called triple fence , after we passed a law signed by president bill clinton in 1996 .  and it was president clinton who signed the bill waiving the endangered species act and waiving nepa because he thought it was so important that we have security at this , the most porous smugglers ' corridor in the united states of america .  now , i can just tell you , as a guy who has worked on this thing from the start , my staff went out and found those 79 , 000 steel landing mats to build this fence .  if the extremists had discovered this fence before we got the first 12 miles built , that would not be built .  we stopped those 300 drug trucks a month , stopped them dead .  we eliminated the 10 murders a year , mostly of undocumented workers .  we eliminated the hundreds of rapes of the people who were coming through there because we built that fence .  if the extremists had had their way , they would have gone to a sympathetic federal court , tied us up in lawsuits and we would not have had the fence .  the secretary of the navy has written us a letter saying that completion of this project will enhance the security of our naval installations by reducing the potential threat environment created by an unsecured border .  a few miles north of this gap in the fence is the biggest naval installation on the west coast .  through this gap have come and been apprehended people from nations that sponsor terrorists , nations like north korea , nations like syria .  this is a security issue .  and for people to say this is an environmental issue , this is the state of play right now , all these trails you see have been hammered into that ecosystem by the smugglers .  none of my colleagues have been out there trying to stop them .  they have hammered these trails by the hundreds into the ecosystem , hammered it into the marshlands and the estuary lands .  good biologists say it will take hundreds of years for these areas to be restored , not by actions of the border patrol or by our security apparatus , but by the smugglers who come across this particular gap in the fence .  we need to secure this gap .  the secretary of the navy recognizes that , president clinton recognized that and gave an unprecedented waiver .  we need to complete the border fence .  mr. speaker , i rise in support of the conference agreement .  i wish to commend the conferees for their work in bringing this important legislation to the house floor .  not only does this bill provide critical support to our military and the war on terror , but it also funds international humanitarian reconstruction and economic assistance programs provided by the united states agency for international development .  as my colleagues know , i have believed for many years that the hiv/aids pandemic represents one of the greatest health and moral crises of our time , particularly in africa .  that is why i was especially pleased by the president 's announcement of a visionary emergency plan for aids relief , and have supported grants and other programs funded by usaid that help to reverse the spread of this pandemic .  it is thus my strongly held view that usaid should continue to fund existing programs , as well as invest in new programs , that support the president 's hiv/aids initiative .  in this regard , there are two programs , both directed toward south africa , that i believe deserve the agency 's particular attention .  the first program is the new african center for aids management , which has , to date , trained over 800 graduates and is the largest program of its kind worldwide .  i understand that usaid has provided only modest funding to support this initiative , while the bulk of the support has come from south african institutions .  with substantial additional support from usaid during fiscal years 2005 and 2006 , this program could double in size and provide training for executives and senior managers from government , the provinces , municipalities and educational institutions , as well as ngos , corporations , and trade unions , in the management of an expanded capability to detect and treat hiv/aids in africa .  the second program would be a new joint u.s.-south african program to provide telemedicine-equipped mobile clinics to serve the south african military involved in peacekeeping efforts throughout africa .  this program , which merits both usaid and dod support , would be run through the south africa medical research council and provide medical services to remote areas to combat hiv/aids and other infectious diseases .  this mobile clinic system , employing some of the latest u.s. telemedicine technologies , would leverage u.s. military expertise across distances .  as this system develops , so would it expand in both its capabilities and its services to the civilian population .  both of these programs are examples of humanitarian initiatives requiring modest investments that usaid is both equipped and funded to support .  i applaud the agency 's past work in this area , and encourage both the continuation of existing efforts and the expansion of the new efforts that i have outlined .  mr. chairman , i rise today in strong support of h.r. 418 , the real id act of 2005 .  this bill includes provisions that are essential to preventing terrorists and other criminals from obtaining fraudulent identification and provides security at our borders .  last year , congress passed legislation based on the recommendations of the 9/11 commission but failed to address vital national security and homeland security issues .  this legislation addresses theses issues and further secures our nation in a post 9/11 world .  h.r. 418 requires states to implement new minimum regulations for state drivers ' license and identification document security standards that must be met within 3 years .  it also establishes a process to enable states to use an existing department of transportation communication system to confirm that drivers ' licenses presented are genuine and validly issued to the person who is carrying them .  the 19 terrorists who attacked america on 9/11 had obtained over 63 valid forms of identification between them to breach our homeland security .  improving document security is necessary to counter threats from foreign terrorism .  this legislation also takes important steps regarding asylum reform .  it prevents terrorists and scam artists from abusing our asylum system and gives immigration judges the tools they need to undercut asylum fraud before it happens .  most importantly , h.r. 418 is critical to the continued construction of the southwest border fence in san diego .  despite efforts by the federal government and the border patrol , california 's coastal commission has objected to and stopped the final phase of fence construction .  completion of the fence will reduce the number of illegal crossings , and will allow the border patrol to re-deploy manpower and resources to other problem areas in san diego .  completion of the 3-mile gap in the fence , known as `` smugglers gulch , '' would be a strong step toward securing our border .  mr. chairman , i made a promise to my constituents to continue to fight for security enhancements to curb illegal immigration and secure our borders .  this legislation is essential to national security and i urge my colleagues to vote in support of h.r. 418 .  mr. chairman , i thank the chairman for yielding me time .  i thank the chairman for leading on this most important issue .  on september 11 , our nation suffered the most horrible attack ever on american soil at the hands of those with a deep-seated , enduring hatred for freedom .  since that day , we have made great strides in improving our nation 's security , but several gaps leave our nation vulnerable to attacks , just like those we suffered that day .  the real id bill would close loopholes and make americans more secure .  the situation in california where a state environmental commission is blocking a national security barrier from being finished must be remedied .  a 3-mile gap remains in a fence which would prevent people from crossing over our southern border in an area that is home to a military base .  half a million people are caught there each year trying to get across , and that does not include those who get on through .  they are their own environmental problem as well .  the real id bill would give the secretary of homeland security the authority he needs to ensure that our national security is not compromised for dubious environmental concerns .  our asylum system presently welcomes fraud by those who seek to do our nation harm .  the real id bill would allow our immigration judges to use common sense to protect americans while still providing a safe harbor for those who truly need refuge in our country .  it is outrageous that we can keep people out of this country based upon terrorist links , but the minute they are in this country , we can not deport them .  the real id bill would fix this problem , which poses a great danger to our citizens .  perhaps most importantly , our nation 's security will remain at risk so long as we give validity to those who are in our nation illegally in the form of state driver 's licenses and other id 's .  driver 's licenses in our country are de facto id cards .  they allow people to blend in , move freely , rent apartments , go to work , board airplanes .  if states do not require some valid form of u.s. government-issued id to get a driver 's license , any person could walk in off the street and claim to be a legal alien in search of a license , and be granted one .  to say that this is not an issue of national security is beyond the limits of reasonability .  the real id bill would ensure those to whom we issue government ids and driver 's licenses are in the u.s. legally and make it more likely that those to whom we issue id 's do not intend to harm americans .  we must close these loopholes .  i thank the chairman and i ask the congress to act .  i thank the gentleman for yielding me this time .  mr. speaker , i want to address a number of numbers here .  this is a little bit about numbers , and one of them is that 121 organizations that we heard about , as if they were the ones that should obstruct the safety of 282 million americans whose lives are at risk .  another number , 19 terrorist hijackers , 19 .  nineteen of them with 63 , another number , 63 valid driver 's licenses in their possession .  any one of those driver 's licenses got them anything they needed to do in america , full rights of citizenship for that matter , and get on board any airplane .  and another number , 3 , 000 dead americans .  and what have we done to close the door ?  anything ?  have we even said `` no '' to the 121 organizations that say , leave the door wide open , keep us at risk because somehow or another there is some kind of tone here that we object to ?  we think something is in your heart .  we need to close this door .  and what have we done ?  we have made it harder for terrorists to get on airplanes with razor blades .  we spent millions of dollars on metal detectors and millions of dollars expanding tsa and putting federal employees in place , and we put millions of people in long lines waiting to get through .  so it is a little harder for them ; they have to stand in line with the rest of us .  stand in line with the rest of us where i stand , where i see a 75-year-old lady going through a spread-eagle search while the young middle eastern male waltzes through with a smirk on his face , and we can not close that door .  this bill does some of that , not all of that , but it will be the first thing that will keep the 19-type terrorist hijackers off our airplanes , keep them out of our airplanes , out of our automobiles and provide a measure of safety and security for the american people .  it is not enough , but it is the barest of common sense , and it must move through this congress , and it must move through this congress right now , today .  mr. chairman , i rise in strong support of the supplemental appropriations bill , and i thank the gentleman from california ( mr. lewis )  for yielding me time .  i want to commend the gentleman for putting together what i believe is an excellent bill and for his leadership in reviewing each single element of the administration 's request .  the subcommittee on transportation , treasury , and hud that i chair has mostly technical items in this supplemental that are not controversial , so i would like to focus my comments on the overall bill .  in the past few months , we have seen an extraordinary progress in iraq and in the middle east at large .  from the historic iraqi elections , the new palestinian leadership , voting in saudi arabia , and massive demonstrations in lebanon against their syrian occupiers , i believe that these events show major positive changes that can come to this part of the world .  we must maintain that momentum , and that is what this bill does .  by passing this legislation , we will keep our soldiers in iraq fully equipped as they continue their daunting task in maintaining security and training iraqis to take over those functions .  the funding included in this bill to secure a new united states embassy will help get us out of the palaces that we currently occupy .  we will provide much-needed assistance to afghanistan in its efforts to become more secure , restrict the drug trade , and develop its economy .  this is a good bill , and it deserves our support .  i would like to comment specifically on one part of the supplemental that i know many of us are concerned about , and that is the $ 200 million to aid the palestinian authority .  the palestinians have an opportunity to get their house in order , and we should help them .  prime minister abbas and finance minister fayyad are the right people for their jobs , but we all know that the palestinian authority still needs a great deal of reform , and we need to be careful about how we provide money to help the palestinians .  that is why under the direction and leadership of the gentleman from arizona ( mr. kolbe )  , we included specific conditions for how this money can be used .  we maintain the prohibition on direct assistance to the palestinian authority .  we require the administration to provide a comprehensive report on the steps taken by the palestinian authority on good governance , economic reforms , and dismantling the terrorist organizations .  and we require an audit of the palestinian authority 's financial structures .  providing this money sends an important signal that the u.s. is prepared to help the palestinians .  including the appropriate conditions sends an equally important signal that the palestinian authority has expectations that must be met .  the committee should be commended for handling this issue in a balanced and effective way ; and i urge everyone , obviously , to support it .  mr. chairman , again i say , this is a good bill , it is a necessary bill , and i urge again all of my colleagues to support it .  mr. chairman , i thank the gentleman for yielding me time .  mr. chairman , i rise in support of the passage of h.r. 418 .  many of these protections that are contained in this legislation are long overdue .  they are necessary to protect our homeland .  in particular , i am supportive of the provisions that deal with enhancing our driver 's licenses by providing for some uniformity in the standards used to issue those driver 's licenses and for finishing the border fence in southern california .  we ought not to let some vague problem of the environment keep us from finishing this important part of our border security .  but that is one step in the process of border security .  i am serious about the problem of border security .  i represent a district that has more apprehensions of illegal immigrants than any other district on the southern border , in fact , more apprehensions than all the other districts combined .  as someone working hard for a long time to help secure our border , i can confidently say the most effective and efficient way to deal with this is to have comprehensive immigration reform .  the president of the united states has recognized this .  we need to create an avenue for those not crossing for malicious reasons to be funneled through the ports-of-entry along the border .  that will allow us to deal with the real problem .  mr. chairman , i urge us to support h.r. 418 , and then turn our attention to comprehensive immigration reform legislation .  mr. chairman , i reserve the balance of my time .  mr. chairman , i thank the gentleman for yielding me this time .  i want to congratulate the gentleman on this , his first bill to be brought to the floor of the house of representatives .  i think it is indicative of the good work that he and his staff are doing .  mr. chairman , i want to talk about the funding of programs that are under the jurisdiction of the subcommittee that i chair , that is , the subcommittee on foreign operations , export financing and related programs .  it totals $ 2.7 billion .  however , approximately $ 1 billion of that is offset with a cut to previously appropriated funds .  the remaining $ 1.75 billion is provided as emergency spending and includes $ 656 million for tsunami recovery .  the committee 's overall recommendation for all the programs under the jurisdiction of the subcommittee on foreign operations , export financing and related programs is $ 1.2 billion less than the president requested .  however , with the $ 1 billion offset , less than half of the president 's request will impact the federal deficit .  let me say once again that i do strongly support the objectives that the president seeks to achieve with this request as it relates to afghanistan , the middle east , the ukraine and the tsunami-devastated areas of asia .  but i did tell chairman lewis that i would scrutinize this request , and the result of that scrutiny is what is before the members today .  we have assigned the highest priority to programs that can be implemented and executed during 2005 and that are not likely to be funded by other donors .  the resulting recommendation is a balanced approach to supporting the president 's request and provides much-needed emergency appropriations to further the fight against terror and provide disaster assistance .  let me explain further the recommendation for the programs under the foreign operations jurisdiction .  we broke the president 's request down into three different categories .  the first includes programs that are true emergencies , such as replenishment of funds that were reprogrammed previously for tsunami disaster assistance and poppy eradication in afghanistan , funds for the humanitarian crisis in darfur and in asia , and funds to train afghan police , funds that are necessary to improve conditions that would enable us to bring our troops home as soon as possible .  total emergency spending under this first category is $ 1.75 billion , as i already indicated .  the second category of funds includes those programs requested by the president that we have determined to not be an emergency , but are important to u.s. leadership abroad .  additionally , this category includes reconstruction resources to stabilize and improve conditions in afghanistan and the middle east which support our efforts to bring our troops home , funds to support the democratic movement and government in ukraine , and funds for programs in the west bank and gaza .  we have provided $ 995 million in this second category of nonemergency spending and have offset these funds with the rescission of prior foreign assistance appropriations , specifically funds that were appropriated for turkey in the fiscal year 2003 supplemental bill .  i think my colleagues recognize that we are faced with unique opportunities in the middle east and afghanistan .  our leadership can have positive influence in both the west bank and gaza , in ukraine , in indonesia and sri lanka and , of course , in afghanistan .  i saw a press report recently from indonesia , the world 's most populous muslim country , that showed that the backing for osama bin laden had dropped from 58 percent in 2003 to 23 percent today .  i believe part of that is due to the efficiency and the generosity of u.s. relief efforts after the december tsunami .  as chairman of the foreign operations , export financing and related programs subcommittee , i am repeatedly reminded of how much we as a nation do each year to provide disaster assistance and relief .  it is encouraging to know that at least one important muslim country has started to take notice .  finally , the last category includes programs requested by the administration that we determined were less urgent and could be considered in the 2006 budget process .  this category totals $ 1.2 billion in funding and includes fiscal year 2006 operating costs of our programs overseas and large construction projects that can either wait for consideration or would have a possible revenue stream , making them ideal projects for world bank and asian development bank funding .  these programs total $ 616 million for afghanistan , $ 200 million for the new global war on terror partners fund , the new $ 200 million solidarity fund , and $ 45 million in debt relief for countries affected by the december tsunami .  let me say that the funds we are providing in the foreign assistance chapter must be considered an investment in security both in the region and on american soil .  it is also a responsibility to our future .  we must not be faced 20 years in the future with the knowledge that we looked at the opportunities of a taliban-free afghan government , a democracy-oriented government in the ukraine , a middle east craving freedom and representative government , only to turn away and leave them to their own meager means with no u.s. influence .  mr. chairman , i urge that this legislation be adopted .  i believe that this is a good bill and a well written one .  mr. chairman , i just want to clarify one point the gentleman from massachusetts made about the $ 8.8 billion , and i just think we members need to understand we are talking about funds that came not from the united states taxpayers , but those $ 8.8 billion are funds from the iraqi fund , which was iraqi dinars that had been collected as a result of oil sales .  it was a chaotic situation at the end of the war , as we all know , and ministries had collapsed .  there was no communication .  there were no accounting systems .  the bureaucrats had not functioned for years .  it was very difficult , at the very best , to know how to handle those in the very best way .  it was really a choice of whether or not we were going to get the projects done as quickly as possible and get the country functioning again .  so i think , to me , the choice was fairly clear .  i just want to make people understand we are not talking about u.s. dollars when we talk about the 8.8 .  is that the one we are considering ?  is that the understanding of the chair ?  mr. chairman , i appreciate the gentleman raising this point , and i want to make it very clear that religious organizations may compete on an equal footing for usaid funding in this bill , as they may for usaid funding in other bills .  so the answer to the gentleman 's question is yes .  mr. chairman , i thank the chairman .  mr. chairman , i yield myself such time as i may consume .  mr. chairman , it is with great pride that i bring before the house h.r. 1268 , a bill making emergency supplemental appropriations for fiscal year 2005 .  this is my first appropriations measure as the new appropriations committee chairman .  i am especially proud of the extraordinary effort put forth by the committee 's members and staff to report a bill that will better permit our troops to prosecute the war on terrorism and will do so with a price tag less than that requested by the president .  mr. chairman , i would like to have the house pay special attention to three of my colleagues who have come back from the private sector to help serve this committee .  frank cushing is my staff director , and david lesstrang and jeff shockey are my deputy staff directors for the committee .  i really appreciate their willingness to make great sacrifice to come back .  six of the committee 's 10 subcommittees participated in the development of this measure which provides $ 81.27 billion in urgent and emergency spending .  the lion 's share of that amount , some $ 76.8 billion , is for defense-related expenditures .  this funding represents an increase for defense needs of $ 1.8 billion above the president 's request , which i hasten to note is entirely for enhanced support for deployed , soon-to-be deployed , or returning troops in order to assist in force protection and to increase the survivability of the troops in the field .  to provide these important resources for our troops , we reduced other , nonessential dod requests by some $ 600 million as well as nearly $ 1 billion in foreign assistance-related programs that were either not well justified or did not meet the strict definition we applied for emergency spending .  in addition , another $ 1 billion of extremely important and time-sensitive non-emergency foreign assistance approved by the committee was completely offset by a rescission of funds originally appropriated in fiscal year 2003 .  with my colleagues ' indulgence , i would like to take a few moments to give the house a flavor of the urgent procurement needs that the committee has included in the measure for our troops .  those include up-armored humvees and other new humvees , medium and heavy trucks , night vision devices , handheld stand-off mine detection systems , jammers , improved high-frequency radios , strykers to replace combat losses , add-on armor kits , small-arms modifications and ammunition , body armor for both the army and marine corps , and medical supplies .  in addition to our providing these necessary resources for our troops , the committee was compelled to fully fund the army 's modularity program at this time because of the urgency to address the significant challenges the army now faces in mitigating stress on the current active duty combat force .  to meet this problem , the army will not only create 10 additional combat brigades ; all of the current combat brigades will be redesigned to enhance their ability to deploy more rapidly and operate more independently on the battlefield .  i might add that our determination to procure additional equipment beyond the president 's request will allow forthcoming troop rotations to receive much of their equipment prior to deployment , clearly an obvious benefit to the success of our troops .  beyond the requirements of our defense community , the bill provides $ 656 million to meet the human needs resulting from last december 's horrific tsunami .  in addition , the bill includes $ 592 million for the construction of the u.s. embassy compound in baghdad .  while that money for the embassy is a reduction of some $ 66 million , or 10 percent , from the president 's request , construction of the embassy compound has been deemed urgent because of the imminent security threats to some 4 , 000 u.s. personnel in iraq .  thus far , 45 personnel with the u.s. mission in iraq have been killed , including two american citizens who were killed by a rocket attack on our diplomatic compound the day of the iraqi elections .  providing the funds now will greatly reduce the amount of time our personnel remain in harm 's way .  despite the additional needs we have recommended on behalf of our troops , the committee 's bill is $ 614 million less than that requested by the president .  this reduction comes largely as a result of reductions in proposed foreign assistance spending .  mr. chairman , i believe this measure is responsible both in how we have responded to the needs to provide for adequate resources in making this fight against terrorism and also in how we have carefully scrubbed each and every program so that we can say with utmost assurance that this is a fiscally sound piece of legislation .  mr. chairman , as i close my remarks , i wish to express my deep appreciation for my ranking member from wisconsin ( mr. obey )  , as well as to each and every member of the committee .  i have already expressed my feelings about our staff on both sides of the aisle .  all of them have worked so diligently to prepare effectively this legislation .  mr. chairman , as i mentioned at the outset , i am very proud of this measure i bring to you , my first measure as chairman of the committee on appropriations .  i certainly urge the members to adopt this bill .  mr. chairman , i reserve the balance of my time .  i appreciate my colleague yielding .  i know he will continue with his statement .  i want the body to know that i very much share his concern .  the gentleman from wisconsin ( mr. obey )  and i have discussed this issue .  he expresses his concern very clearly ; as did the gentleman from florida ( mr. young )  .  it has been my privilege to work with the gentleman for years , and i know of his commitment to the department and our work .  indeed the administration does owe us the courtesy of adequate and appropriate response time .  mr. chairman , i yield myself such time as i may consume .  mr. chairman , i would take a moment to suggest to the gentleman that he may not be aware of it because he does not serve on those subcommittees , but there were at least six hearings in a variety of subcommittees and other meetings regarding this matter before we got organized .  mr. chairman , i reserve the balance of my time .  mr. chairman , i reserve the balance of my time .  at this point i see none on the floor .  mr. chairman , i have no additional speakers .  i will make closing remarks on the general debate .  mr. chairman , i do .  of course .  mr. chairman , i move to strike the last word .  i do so in order to have a very brief discussion with the gentleman who is chairman of the authorizing committee .  i think many of you in the house know that i spent a lot of years in my life making an honest living in the life and health insurance business so i know a little bit about this subject .  the gentleman is raising a number of questions that are very legitimate questions .  i do not think there is a conflict here .  i just wanted the gentleman to know that it is my intention to examine these serious questions between now and the time we go to conference .  i am absolutely certain we can at least clear the air on any remaining problems between now and then .  reclaiming my time , let us not describe what the gentleman from wisconsin ( mr. obey )  did .  we will be here for hours .  either we do this my way or we do not .  reclaiming my time , the gentleman can then , in this complex field , understand when he used the term `` restrict '' that the gentleman from wisconsin ( mr. obey )  might be a bit disconcerted .  does the gentleman see what i am saying ?  reclaiming my time , it would be my intention for us to have serious discussions including the gentleman from wisconsin ( mr. obey )  and his staff and our people so that we know that the air is cleared .  reclaiming my time , i appreciate the gentleman from wisconsin 's ( mr. obey )  point .  in the meantime , i believe we will have some work to do in the weeks ahead and i look forward to working with the gentleman and with the gentleman from wisconsin ( mr. obey )  and others to solve this problem .  i have asked for a ruling of the chair .  mr. chairman , i would simply say it is our intention to pursue the questions the gentlewoman is asking .  it may very well be in conference on the supplemental that it is appropriate , but frankly in some ways we take from peter to pay paul .  we can pursue this is regular order , and i prefer to use the supplemental process for those emergencies that we can not deal with in regular order .  because of that , i am not pursuing the recommendations at this time .  we will follow through , however , on the questions that the gentlewoman is asking .  mr. chairman , i insist on my point of order .  mr. chairman , in that event , i withdraw my point of order .  madam chairman , speaking further on the point of order , i would simply , calmly say to the gentleman that i very much agree , as the entire house agrees , that we must be responsive to the medical needs of our veterans , especially those who are coming back at this very moment .  there is not any doubt that the new military quality of life and veterans affairs , and related agencies subcommittee is designed in the fashion to be very responsive to the needs of veterans .  i urge the gentleman to recognize that we have begun hearings in connection with that already .  it is our intention in regular order to move these bills very quickly , and there is absolutely no doubt that the needs of these veterans , beyond money that is already in the pipeline , will be met as a result of regular order .  mr. chairman , i yield myself such time as i may consume .  mr. chairman , i am sure all members are very concerned about the proposed embassy compound in iraq and the number of dollars that are involved .  i think it is very important that i share with members our discussion with the secretary of state .  she feels it is absolutely critical that we move forward very quickly with this money , first and foremost because we have almost 4 , 000 american personnel whose lives are in jeopardy under current conditions .  indeed , if this compound goes forward quickly , their security will be assured .  the secretary has been given great assurance that the compound can be completed in 24 months .  there is only one small hook , and that is in order to get a contractor to bid on such a job in this territory , the money has to be there in the pot .  so within this bill we are providing the funds to make sure the funds are available and we can move quickly .  this embassy and the compound are designed to solidify our mission , allowing us to be successful in iraq as well as the middle east .  it is very important that we go forward with this money now .  mr. chairman , i reserve the balance of my time .  mr. chairman , i withdraw my point of order .  mr. chairman , i move that the committee do now rise .  the motion was agreed to .  accordingly , the committee rose ; and the speaker pro tempore ( mr. pearce )  having assumed the chair , mr. gilchrest , acting chairman of the committee of the whole house on the state of the union , reported that that committee , having had under consideration the bill ( h.r. 1268 ) making emergency supplemental appropriations for the fiscal year ending september 30 , 2005 , and for other purposes , had come to no resolution thereon .  mr. chairman , i want to say upfront to the house that it is not my intention to speak on the time i have reserved in opposition to this proposition , so i am asking for a chance for an exchange here with the gentleman from wisconsin ( mr. obey )  .  the gentleman from wisconsin ( mr. obey )  and i have spent a good deal of time behind closed doors in appropriate security to discuss matters like this , but especially to express our concern that the department of defense communicate regularly with the congress relative to activities that might involve areas that are , indeed , secure .  i have never told the gentleman from wisconsin ( mr. obey )  this before , but i will never forget as a mere member of the subcommittee on defense and a member of the intelligence committee discussing a program that was in the black that i knew about because i happened to be in the back room , but a program that the department of defense was not very excited about .  we ended up advancing some money to have that program go forward .  i have no idea if we would have been unsuccessful with that effort if they had known how serious we were .  it is important that we communicate with each other .  communication is a two-way street not a one-way street .  so for those listening across the river , it is very important to know that the gentleman from wisconsin ( mr. obey )  is serious about this , and the leadership of the house is serious about it as well .  mr. chairman , i am trying to remember , what is the name of that hospital .  i am trying to remember .  san diego veterans medical center in la jolla .  and does it happen to be in the gentleman 's district ?  mr. chairman , it is my understanding that hospital needs a lot of work .  i assume the gentleman suggests that veterans ought to be first in line if we do some refurbishing ?  and was the gentleman involved in that ?  mr. chairman , i would ask the gentleman , did we successfully get money for that seismic retrofitting ?  mr. chairman , i wish the gentleman would have discussed that with me at the time .  we had a similar problem at loma linda veterans medical center , the sister hospital of the jerry pettis veterans hospital , and we found a way to do seismic retrofitting by way of using a laser .  no portion of the hospital needs to be closed down while the work is being done .  thereby , patients can actually be in the hospital while the work is being done .  we did not have that discussion .  mr. chairman , has the gentleman visited that hospital in the last years ?  in the last year ?  mr. chairman , i attempt to visit my hospital regularly as well .  and , indeed , visit the veterans who are now back at walter reed or bethesda .  indeed , we all should be concerned about that priority .  but , frankly , i am a bit incensed by the gentleman 's suggestion yesterday that would indicate that we do not give priority on a bipartisan basis to veterans .  i would ask the gentleman to join me in a special mission .  would the gentleman consider the mission ?  mr. chairman , the mission is the veterans service organizations are a great voice for veterans here in washington .  like the gentleman , they are constantly pounding their chest saying , i am calling for money , more opportunity for veterans .  i insist that they help us go back to where the hospitals are and see that veterans are treated like real human beings in those hospitals .  i can not get the vsos to do it .  maybe i can get the gentleman to do it because the gentleman is obviously more concerned than the vsos are about those veterans benefits and the way they are being treated .  mr. chairman , i ask , would the gentleman from california ( mr. filner )  join me in that effort , or does the gentleman believe the money is being spent very well at veterans hospitals ?  mr. chairman , i reclaim my time .  ... ..  who says we do not have enough money ?  ... ..  how much time do i have remaining , mr. chairman ?  i appreciate the gentlewoman from new york yielding .  como esta .  mr. speaker , i rise to claim the time in opposition to the motion to recommit .  mr. speaker , i rise in opposition to the motion to recommit largely because i believe on both sides of the aisle the body recognizes that the reason for this supplemental is to provide as quickly as possible money flows in support of our troops .  this is a supplemental dealing with our challenges in the middle east especially .  it is a supplemental dealing with the crises that have resulted from the tsunami .  but , in the meantime , the gentlewoman is suggesting that we should recommit this bill to add $ 150 million .  the best thing that we can do for our troops is to move this bill very quickly and send it on its way for a conference with the senate .  there is absolutely no question that to have a recommittal motion be successful that would add $ 150 million to an $ 82 billion package , the vast percentage of which is in support of our troops , at best is a technical exercise .  to recommit for the sake of recommitting is not a reflection of how seriously we are taking the challenge we have of supporting our troops .  so i rise in opposition to the motion to recommit , and i urge members on both sides of the aisle to recognize that we must move forward with this supplemental .  mr. speaker , pursuant to house resolution 258 , i call up the conference report on the bill ( h.r. 1268 ) making emergency supplemental appropriations for the fiscal year ending september 30 , 2005 , to establish and rapidly implement regulations for state driver 's license and identification document security standards , to prevent terrorists from abusing the asylum laws of the united states , to unify terrorism-related grounds for inadmissibility and removal , to ensure expeditious construction of the san diego border fence , and for other purposes .  mr. speaker , i yield myself such time as i may consume .  i am pleased to bring to the house for its consideration the conference report on h.r. 1268 , the emergency supplemental appropriations act for defense , the global war on terror and tsunami relief .  the conference agreement includes a total of $ 82 billion .  the vast majority of these funds are to support our troops in iraq and afghanistan .  for that reason , it is critical that we move this package quickly .  it also provides needed assistance to the victims of the tsunami .  during our conference with the senate , chairman cochran and i agreed that the final agreement should come in at or below the president 's request and relatively free of extraneous items .  the conference report before you has met both of these very critical parameters .  we did our very best to keep the package clean , and by and large , we were successful with that .  we have funded our foreign policy priorities while still preserving congressional prerogatives where appropriate .  with that said , the conference report provides a total of $ 75.9 billion for defense-related expenditures , roughly $ 921 million over the president 's request .  the additions over the request are for force protection , and increasing the survivability of troops in the field .  in addition to the defense-related spending , the conference report provides a reduction of $ 1.5 billion in foreign assistance from the president 's request .  the conference agreement also includes $ 635 million for increased border security enforcement .  this includes 500 additional border patrol agents and increased detention space .  we have also included $ 656 million for tsunami disaster relief .  finally , the bill includes much of the real id act of 2005 , which was included in the house-passed version of the bill .  the provisions on asylum , border infrastructure , and driver 's license standards are included .  each of these provisions will greatly enhance the security of our borders .  all of these provisions reflect agreements negotiated by relevant authorizing committees .  i especially want to thank chairman sensenbrenner , chairman davis and their staffs for getting this measure before the congress in a timely fashion .  i urge my colleagues to support this much needed support for our troops .  mr. speaker , i reserve the balance of my time .  mr. speaker , i yield myself such time as i may consume .  i thank the gentleman from pennsylvania for one of the most illuminating , but also one of the longest , statements i have ever heard him make on the floor .  mr. speaker , i yield myself such time as i may consume .  mr. speaker , let me begin by saying that while i very strongly oppose my colleague from wisconsin 's motion to recommit , the gentleman was kind enough to share the recommittal motion with us before the fact , and i am very much appreciative of that .  the greatest difficulty i have with the motion is that at this moment our forces are on gas fumes , rather than real gasoline .  it is very , very critical that we get this bill moving towards the president 's desk and to the troops as quickly as possible .  i would like to speak for a moment about some of those things that the bill does that may be of great interest to the members who are concerned especially about border security .  within this package there are some 500 border patrol agents , added as a result of this measure as it goes to the president 's desk .  there are 218 immigration enforcement agents and criminal investigators .  there are some 1 , 950 detention beds .  the bill is designed to take every step that we possibly can on short order to secure our border .  at the same time , just yesterday the subcommittee on homeland security marked up their 2006 bill to move further down this same pathway .  we are moving very quickly to strengthen and secure our borders by way of this legislation , as well as regular order .  from there , mr. speaker , let me express my deepest appreciation to members on both sides of the aisle who have worked very hard , their staffs , as well as the members themselves , to make sure that this supplemental would arrive on time and ahead of schedule .  virtually nobody thought we would be here at this moment .  the reason we are is because the members recognize how critical it is that we get this support to our troops immediately .  mr. speaker , i very much appreciate my colleagues ' patience as we work quickly on this bill .  it is a very good bill .  i urge my colleagues ' support .  mr. speaker , i recently presented a joint statement with senator snowe regarding small business contracting and would like to submit it for the record .  section 6022 of h.r. 1268 , as adopted in the conference report , h. rep .  109-72 , contains certain provisions concerning small business contracting at the department of energy .  these provisions were inserted as a substitute for section 6023 of the senate version of h.r. 1268 .  section 6023 , among other things sought to amend the small business act to authorize counting of small business subcontracts at the department of energy 's large prime contractors for purposes of reporting small business prime contracting results .  because the substitute language was not adopted by congress through regular legislative proceedings in the senate committee on small business and entrepreneurship and the house committee on small business but was adopted anew during the house-senate conference , the in subsections 6022 ( a ) and ( b ) , the language chosen to replace section 6023 in the conference report directs the department of energy and the small business administration to enter into a memorandum of understanding for reporting small business prime contracts and subcontracts at the department of energy .  this replacement language does not change the small business act 's clear distinction between prime contracts and subcontracts , does not amend the statutory small business prime contracting goal requirements which are binding on the department of energy , and does not obviate congressional and regulatory policies against contract bundling .  this language does not repeal the president 's executive order 13360 directing the department of energy to comply with its separate statutory prime contracting and subcontracting goals for awards to small businesses owned by service-disabled veterans .  any interpretation to the contrary would be unreasonable and contrary to congressional intent .  in subsection 6022 ( c ) , the replacement language mandates a study of changes to management prime contracts at the department of energy to encourage small business prime contracting opportunities .  the object of the study is to examine the feasibility of establishing a procurement agency relationship between the management prime contractors and the department of energy in accordance with the requirements of federal procurement laws , federal procurement regulations , the `` federal norm '' of government contracting as recognized by the comptroller general , and applicable judicial precedent such as u.s. west communications , inc .  v. united states , 940 f.2d 622 ( fed .  cir .  1991 ) .  finally , in subsection 6022 ( d ) , the replacement language imposes certain requirements upon the department of energy concerning break-outs of services from large prime contracts for awards to small businesses .  first , the secretary of energy is required to consider whether services performed have been previously provided by a small business concern .  this requirement is for acquisition planning purposes only , and shall not be construed as imposing a restriction of any kind on the ability of the department of energy to break out its large prime contracts for award to small businesses .  congress recognizes that most of work currently contracted by the department of energy to its large prime contractors has never been historically performed by small businesses .  however , this does not waive the application of the small business act , the president 's executive order 13360 , or the president 's initiative against contract bundling to the department of energy .  second , the secretary of energy is required mr. chairman , i thank the gentleman from virginia for yielding me this time , and i rise today in very , very strong support of the identification reforms that are in this legislation .  these reforms , in my opinion , are extremely necessary to help us better protect our identity documents and to secure our borders .  this legislation will help america to better protect our nation from those who wish to do us harm .  no longer will we allow terrorists free access to state-issued identity documents as a way to use the tools of our freedom against us .  no longer will we stand idly by and watch terrorists harm our homeland .  state-issued driver 's licenses and state identification cards are the most widely used form of identification in the nation .  it is the backbone , quite frankly , of our identity .  it provides legitimacy to any person who holds this form of identification .  driver 's licenses are used in everyday instances , such as boarding an airplane or enrolling in a flight school .  does that sound familiar ?  well , it should .  because according to the 9/11 commission report , all but one of the 9/11 hijackers acquired some form of u.s. identification documents , some by fraud .  all but one of the hijackers used a state-issued driver 's license on that horrific day .  even more frightening is the fact that a regular driver 's license is your passport to obtain a commercial driver 's license , from which then , of course , you can then try to obtain a hazardous materials license , an endorsement on your commercial driver 's license .  it is bad enough to think about giving terrorists access to our roadways and our aircraft , but it is unthinkable to give them access to 40 , 000 gallons of liquid propane , as an example .  this legislation also closes a loophole which has allowed illegal aliens to get access to our driver 's licenses .  our message on this issue is clear : if you are not in this country legally , then you will not be given legal sanctions on our roads .  if you are in america on a visa , you will be issued a driver 's license ; but it will expire on the same day as your visa .  muhammed atta , as has been said , came to america on a 6-month visa , but he was issued a 6-year florida driver 's license .  i struggled with this issue , as the chairman had said .  in my former role as the secretary of state in michigan , where i served as the chief motor vehicle administrator , i was forced to issue drivers ' licenses to illegal aliens .  unfortunately , michigan is one of the states that continues this practice .  it has become a state of choice for illegals to obtain a license .  we must stop this practice .  i urge my colleagues to support the bill .  mr. chairman , we are all grateful to our troops and those serving in iraq .  we are grateful for what we are seeing happening there , and we want to do what we can to support those efforts and make sure that our troops have what they need .  but every time when i go home , no matter what the subject is that we are talking about in any meeting , the thing that always comes up is the deficit .  somebody always says , `` but what are you doing about the deficit ?  `` my concern with the embassy being in the supplemental is exactly that , it is over and above the regular process .  i have no problem with building an embassy in iraq .  we need an embassy in iraq , but we have also known we need an embassy in iraq , and why did it not come through earlier if it is that much of an emergency .  yes , it is a huge amount of money and i understand it is not just a building , it is a compound , but it is three times what we have spent in afghanistan already .  if we do not start getting some discipline in this body in what we are doing , we are never going to get back to where we all want to be , and that is what we did in 1997 was start to balance the budget , and we were well on the way .  sure , we have had a lot of problems .  we had the war , the recession , other problems which have interfered with that , but we have to have some fiscal discipline and just putting things that are not actual emergencies in a supplemental spending bill in my opinion is not to be done .  a supplemental is for emergencies and i do not consider an embassy to be an emergency .  my constituents at home agree with this .  as i said before , whenever i am anywhere they always say what are you doing about cutting spending , what are you doing about the deficit ?  i hope we can bring this embassy back through regular order and make it happen because we want to be sure the people are protected , and then pass the supplemental today .  the other things in the supplemental are needed .  there is no question about that .  our chairman has done a very , very good job with this bill , but i have a problem with funding the embassy in a supplemental .  mr. chairman , i rise in opposition to this $ 82 billion `` emergency '' supplemental bill .  i also am opposed to the manner in which the real id act , h.r. 418 , was attached to the rule , thereby stealthily making the establishment of a national id part of an `` emergency '' bill to which it is completely unrelated .  once again we see controversial bills being hidden inside another bill so that they are automatically passed where they otherwise might face opposition .  i do not believe this is a wise practice .  this `` emergency '' supplemental is the second largest supplemental appropriations bill in united states history , second only to the one last year .  the funds will be considered `` emergency '' funds so congress can ignore spending caps that would require the billions in new spending to be offset by reducing spending elsewhere .  we are told that this is emergency spending , and that we therefore must not question this enormous expenditure .  does an emergency require sending billions of american taxpayers ' dollars overseas as foreign aid an emergency ?  this bill is filled with foreign aid spending .  if we pass this ill-conceived legislation , we will spend $ 656 million for tsunami relief ; $ 94 million for darfur , sudan ; $ 150 million for food aid , most to liberia and sudan ; $ 580 million for `` peacekeeping '' overseas ; $ 582 million to build a new american embassy in iraq ; $ 76 million to build a new airport in kuwait ( one of the wealthiest countries on earth ) ; $ 257 million for counter drug efforts in afghanistan ; $ 372 million for health , reconstruction , and alternative development programs to help farmers stop raising poppy ; $ 200 million in economic aid for the palestinians ; $ 150 million for pakistan ( run by an unelected dictator ) ; $ 200 million for jordan ; $ 34 million for ukraine .  does anyone really believe that all this foreign aid is `` emergency '' spending ?  or is it just an opportunity for some off-budget spending ?  just the above foreign aid equals almost $ 3.5 billion .  does anyone believe that sending this much money abroad as international welfare is a good thing for our economy ?  is there a baseball emergency ?  there must be , because this `` emergency '' supplemental contains a provision to allow washington , d.c .  to use taxpayer money to build a baseball stadium .  mr. chairman , this bill is almost unimaginably expensive .  it is our out-of-control spending that really is the greatest threat to the united states and our way of life .  i urge my colleagues to reject this legislation .  mr. chairman , i rise in strong support of the real id act and with a particular sense of gratitude toward the gentleman from wisconsin ( mr. sensenbrenner )  , who has doggedly brought this legislation to the hill for one reason and one reason only .  9/11 is not theoretical for me .  i was here .  i was on the capitol grounds , and my family during the school year lives in the washington d.c. , area , and like millions of other families in new york and washington , d.c. , was imperiled .  as the 9/11 commission report stated , `` for terrorists , travel documents are as important as weapons. '' on page 390 of the report they point out that `` all but one of the 9/11 hijackers acquired some form of u.s. identification by fraud and that acquisition of these forms of identification assisted them in boarding commercial flights. '' by bringing this legislation today , the gentleman from wisconsin ( mr. sensenbrenner )  is making my family safer in this post-9/11 america , and also closing asylum loopholes , strengthening our deportation laws .  it is time for congress to get real and pass the real id act and make our families and our nation safer .  madam chairman , i move to strike the last word .  madam chairman , i wish to extend my gratitude on behalf of the entire florida delegation to the gentleman from california ( mr. lewis )  and the gentleman from kentucky ( mr. mike rogers ) for entering into this colloquy with us regarding a very crucial issue to florida as well as this congress .  last fall the state of florida withstood an historic four hurricanes causing enormous devastation and damage to property , waterways , homes and individuals ' lives .  i commend the relief efforts on the ground in the immediate aftermath of the hurricane as well as the willingness of congress to step forward and offer meaningful relief to hurricane victims .  but there are two issues for which the department of homeland security , federal emergency management agency should recognize under their current statutory authority to effectively address florida hurricane-related damage .  congress appropriated funds to respond to the hurricane devastation through the military construction appropriations and emergency hurricane supplemental appropriations act 2005 , public law 108-324 , and the emergency supplemental of 2004 , public law 108-303 .  reclaiming my time , i thank the chairman .  i would ask the chairman , is it his understanding that the administration has the authority under the stafford act to remove debris from the private lands when it is in the public interest ?  i thank the chairman for his time and attention to this most important effort .  it is my hope that this colloquy brings clarity and direction to fema as it administers the critical disaster relief funds .  mr. speaker , i thank chairman lewis for including in the supplemental the provision which is our wounded warrior bill .  as our enemies adapt their war-fighting strategies , they change not just to kill our men and women overseas , but to maim and wound .  roadside incendiary devices , rocket grenades , car bombs mean the loss of several arms and legs and eyes , blindness and paralysis .  our men and woman coming home at walter reed army hospital and their families coming up to be with them so they can heal faster are incurring great debt .  never mind that they try to transition back into society , those great wage earners , trying to find self-worth in the work .  this bill includes the wounded warrior project .  it says to our troops , we are going to provide you with supplemental disability insurance to help you transition back to being american citizens and thank you for your patriotism .  i urge my colleagues to vote for this supplemental .  do not allow these traumatic injuries to be the economic death sentence after our troops have survived the death bed overseas .  vote for our wounded warriors .  madam chairman , house report 108-773 which accompanied the military construction emergency hurricane supplemental bill stated , `` the conferees agree to provide an additional $ 6.5 billion for disaster relief activities associated with declared disasters such as hurricanes frances , ivan and jeanne. '' supplemental funds appropriated in the wake of the four hurricanes may be used by fema in administering relief to stricken communities and victims in areas such as florida where the president declared disaster areas that meet current statutory eligibility under the stafford act .  madam chairman , it is my understanding that the stafford act authorizes the removal of wreckage and debris resulting from a major disaster from both public and private lands when the president determines that it is in the public interest .  mr. speaker , i thank the gentleman for yielding me this time .  i want to compliment the gentleman from california ( chairman lewis ) and the other conferees for giving us a whole new effort , a major effort to try to control the borders and to deal with the massive illegal immigration problem that the country is facing .  we have 11 million estimated illegal aliens in the country , and 800 , 000 or so of them are people who have been ordered deported and yet have absconded .  eighty thousand of those have criminal records .  this bill , when combined with the homeland security appropriations bills for 2006 that we marked up yesterday in the subcommittee , those two bills combined will give us a new , massive effort to deal with the problem .  these two bills will give us 1 , 500 new border patrol agents , 568 new immigration and customs enforcement officers throughout the country , and some 3 , 900 new jail bed space to try to deal with this massive , overwhelming problem .  i want to commend the chairman for having the foresight , along with the gentleman from wisconsin ( mr. obey )  and the other members of the conference , for giving us the new capability to tackle a problem that is proving to be very elusive .  so i compliment the chairman , and i urge everyone to support this bill .  mr. speaker , i rise in strong support of this rule to provide for consideration of this counterterrorism bill of which i am an original cosponsor .  this is the real id act .  it closes , among other things , the 3-mile hole in the fortified u.s.-mexico border fence near san diego .  border security must be a pillar of our national security policy .  recent press accounts have reported that al qaeda operatives have joined forces with alien smuggling rings like ms-13 in order to enter the united states , particularly through our porous southern border .  this bill establishes strong security standards for the issuance of driver 's licenses that all states must comply with to eliminate weak links in identity security .  the nineteen 9/11 hijackers had 63 validly issued driver 's licenses and other forms of identification between them , and they were using these ids to move around the country undetected , plotting and planning .  in fact , eight of them were even registered to vote .  they then used the bogus licenses that they had to board u.s. planes .  h.r. 418 cracks down on asylum fraud by ensuring all terrorism-related grounds of inadmissibility are grounds for deportation .  the blind sheik , omar abdel rahman , who led a plot to bomb new york city landmarks , used an asylum application to avoid his deportation .  it is a fact that terrorists have continued to use and abuse asylum laws to stay in our country .  as the 9/11 commission found , abusing our asylum law is `` the primary method , '' in their words , used by terrorist aliens , like the 1993 world trade center bombers ramzi yousef and ahmad ajaj , to remain in the united states .  both , in the words of the 9/11 commission , `` concocted bogus political asylum stories when they arrived in the united states. '' so if we want to make it harder for terrorists like yousef and ajaj to abuse our asylum system , support this counterterrorism bill .  the ninth circuit created an extremely disturbing precedent that has made it easier for suspected terrorists to receive asylum .  the circuit has held that if a foreign government harasses an alien because he has been affiliated with a terrorist group , the alien is eligible for asylum because he could be persecuted on account of the political opinion of that terrorist group .  since members of terrorist organizations are eligible to receive asylum , under this doctrine an alien could receive asylum expressly because he was an admitted member of a terrorist organization .  the bill returns the law to its original understanding and overturns this ninth circuit precedent by requiring that asylum applicants establish that race , religion , nationality , membership in a particular social group , or political opinion was or will be a central reason for their claimed persecution .  these are commonsense changes to national security and to border security .  mr. speaker , i am pleased that the conference report includes the real id act , which i co-sponsored .  and of course the goal of this bill is straightforward .  it seeks to prevent another terrorist attack on u.s. soil by disrupting terrorist travel .  these provisions were called for by the 9/11 commission .  and this legislation uses existing states driver 's license systems to ensure we know who is in our country , that people are who they say they are , and that the name on a driver 's license is the holder 's real name , not an alias .  all but one of the 9/11 hijackers used u.s. driver 's licenses to board the planes that day because these documents allowed them to circumvent their expired visas .  it allowed them to not raise suspicion or concern .  mohammed atta received a 6-month visa to stay in the u.s. he received a florida driver 's license good for 6 years .  the real id act will end this by establishing a rule for all states , that temporary driver 's licenses for foreign visitors expire when their visa terms expire and establishes tough rules for confirming identity before driver 's licenses are issued .  mr. chairman , on september 11 , we were attacked by terrorists who took advantage of weaknesses in our border security .  after infiltrating our country , the terrorists were able to conceal their real identities , and thereby plot their attacks without fear of being apprehended .  if we , as a congress , want to seriously address the problem of terrorism , then we must address the issue of border security .  for this reason , i rise to express my support for the real id act .  this bill contains urgent border security reforms that were not addressed in the intelligence reform bill that president bush signed into law in december .  foremost in this bill are provisions that would prevent terrorists from obtaining a united states driver 's license .  without a license , potential terrorists will have a much harder time opening a bank account , traveling , and conducting other business necessary to plot an attack .  i think we all understand that preserving freedom is not an easy process .  freedom is a difficult journey filled with enemies who will try to destroy it if they are left unchecked .  for this reason , i strongly urge my colleagues to vote for the real id act .  mr. speaker , i thank the gentleman for yielding me this time .  much has been and will be said about this bill 's impact on making it more difficult for terrorists to get identification to conduct their terrorist activities and the reform of the asylum laws and the plugging of the fence south of san diego .  however , there is an issue of public safety involved in this bill as well .  yesterday , a criminal complaint was unsealed in the federal court in chicago which showed that there was a huge scam in getting wisconsin driver 's licenses for illegal aliens to drive trucks .  and in at least one instance , the case of nasko nazov , who is an illegal alien from macedonia , 3 days after he obtained this driver 's license , he killed four people , a family of four , in a truck-car accident in baileyton , tennessee .  now , the criminal complaint says that the scam worked as follows : foreign nationals paid sponsors in chicago up to $ 2 , 000 for help in getting a commercial driver 's license .  several wisconsin residents were paid a one-time fee for use of their addresses .  the clients were transported from chicago to milwaukee via van to banks in milwaukee , where they used the wisconsin addresses to open checking accounts .  after the checks were printed , the clients brought them to the division of motor vehicles as proof of their residency required to take their written tests .  in wisconsin , the written tests were given in english , spanish , and russian .  people who spoke other languages had to bring their own interpreters .  some of the interpreters helped the clients cheat on the tests .  in some cases , the sponsors accompanied the clients to a private facility that has a contract with the state to conduct road tests .  employees there accepted payments that ensured that the clients passed the test whether or not they knew how to drive a truck .  now , because wisconsin does not require proof of legal residency in the united states in order to get a driver 's license , whether it is a regular license or a commercial driver 's license , mr. nazov got a license validly issued by the wisconsin department of motor vehicles , and 3 days later killed a family of four on a highway in tennessee with a truck he did not know how to drive .  now , legislation like this would have been a key move in preventing an illegal alien from getting this driver 's license , a driver 's license he could not have gotten in the state of illinois .  i think this proves that there is more involved to this than border security .  there is an issue of public safety .  and if you do not believe that , ask the family of the people who were killed in tennessee .  mr. speaker , i submit for the record the story from the milwaukee journal sentinel entitled `` tennessee deaths bring new charge. '' tennessee deaths bring new charge : trucker illegally obtained license here a man who got a commercial truck driver 's license illegally in wisconsin killed a family of four on a tennessee freeway , then lied about his actions , according to a criminal compliant unsealed tuesday in federal court in chicago .  nasko nazov , an illegal immigrant from macedonia , is charged with lying to a federal grand jury during an offshoot of `` operation safe road , '' the federal investigation that ultimately led to criminal charges against former illinois gov .  george ryan .  the investigation also revealed that in wisconsin at least 600 people from other states cheated on written exams , bribed officials administering road tests or lied about their residency to get truck driver 's licenses , according to court records .  if convicted , nazov , 45 , of downers grove , ill. , faces a maximum penalty of five years in prison , a fine of up to $ 500 , 000 and deportation .  he also is wanted in tennessee on reckless homicide charges , said randall sanborn , spokesman for the u.s. attorney 's office in chicago .  nazov -- who has never lived in wisconsin -- received a wisconsin commercial driver 's license on march 4 , 2003 , according to court records .  three days later he caused a fatal wreck on i-81 near baileyton , tenn. , according to media reports .  edward dean armstrong iii ; his wife , melissa ; his 10-year-old daughter , brittany ; and his 6-year-old son , dean , all were killed .  the family was returning home to virginia after visiting family in knoxville , tenn. , according to the reports .  their 1998 saturn was stuck in traffic because of an earlier accident .  nazov , who was driving a tractor-trailer , first hit a pickup , then plowed into the armstrongs ' car , shoving it under another large truck .  `` we believe there are up to 1 , 000 suspect licenses , and this shows the risk inherent in each of those , '' u.s. attorney steve biskupic said tuesday .  a milwaukee investigation parallel to the one in chicago is continuing , he said .  both probes center on foreign nationals .  according to court records in the chicago case , the scheme worked like this : the foreign nationals paid sponsors in the chicago area up to $ 2 , 000 for help getting a commercial driver 's license .  several wisconsin residents were paid a one-time fee for use of their addresses .  clients were transported from chicago via van to banks in milwaukee , where they used the wisconsin addresses to open checking accounts .  after the checks were printed , the clients brought them to the division of motor vehicles as the proof of residency required to take their written tests .  in wisconsin , the written tests are given in english , spanish or russian .  people who speak other languages must bring their own interpreters .  some of the interpreters helped the clients cheat on the tests .  in some cases , the sponsors accompanied the clients to a private facility that has a contract with the state to conduct road tests .  employees there accepted payments that ensured the clients passed their tests , whether or not they knew how to drive a truck .  the wisconsin rules for licensing are less strict than those in illinois .  there , written tests are offered only in english , and translators are not allowed .  road tests in illinois must be conducted at state offices , not private facilities .  nazov listed an address in the 4200 block of w. loomis road in greenfield on his driver 's license application , according to the charging documents .  he testified before a grand jury in june 2004 that he had lived there for a few months with his girlfriend .  he told federal investigators he remembered only her first name , julie , and that she has since left the country .  he could not provide them with a description of the building , according to the documents .  the owner of the building said he had never rented an apartment to nazov or to a woman named julie .  the owner also found letters from the wisconsin department of transportation addressed to nazov and four other people at the building , according to the documents .  the owner , who told investigations he had not authorized anyone to use the address , has not been charged .  nazov , who speaks macedonian , took his written test with the help of an interpreter , according to court records .  mr. chairman , i yield myself such time as i may consume .  mr. chairman , in december , the president signed into law legislation intended to respond to the recommendations of the 9/11 commission .  unfortunately , the legislation that was enacted failed to include several key provisions critical to addressing vulnerabilities found in both the 9/11 commission report and of the 9/11 staff report on terrorist travel .  to that end , on january 26th of this year , i introduced h.r. 418 , the real id act .  the bill , which now has 139 cosponsors , encompasses four of the most important border and document security provisions that the house overwhelmingly approved as a part of h.r. 10 last year .  the goal of the real id act is straightforward .  it seeks to prevent another 9/11-type terrorist attack by disrupting terrorist travel .  the 9/11 commission terrorist travel report stated that `` abuse of the immigration system and the lack of interior enforcement were unwittingly working together to support terrorist activities. '' the report further states that `` members of al qaeda clearly valued freedom of movement as critical to their ability to plan and carry out the attacks prior to september 11th. '' finally , the report observed , `` if terrorist travel options are reduced , they may be forced to rely on means of interaction which can be more easily monitored and to resort to travel documents that are more easily detectable. '' the real id act contains four provisions aimed at disrupting terrorist travel .  first , the legislation does not , does not , try to set states ' policy for those who may or may not drive a car , but it does address the use of a driver 's license as a form of identification to a federal official such as an airport screener at a domestic airport .  american citizens have the right to know who is in their country , that the people are who they say they are , and that the name on the driver 's license is the real holder 's name , not some alias .  second , this legislation will tighten our asylum system , which has been abused by terrorists .  the 9/11 commission staff report on terrorist travel states that `` once the terrorists had entered the united states , their next challenge was to find a way to remain here. '' their primary method was immigration fraud .  irresponsible judges have made asylum laws vulnerable to fraud and abuse .  we will end judge-imposed presumptions that benefit suspected terrorists in order to stop providing a safe haven to some of the worst people on earth .  the real id act will reduce the opportunity for immigration fraud so that we can protect honest asylum seekers and stop rewarding the terrorists and criminals who falsely claim persecution .  liberal activist judges in the ninth circuit have been overturning clearly established precedent and are preventing immigration judges from denying bogus asylum applications by aliens who are clearly lying .  if criminal juries can sentence a defendant to life imprisonment or execution based on adverse credibility determinations , certainly an immigration judge can deny an alien asylum on this basis .  it is one of the foundations of our system of jurisprudence that juries and trial judges should be able to decide cases on the basis of credibility or lack of credibility of witnesses .  this bill will again allow immigration judges to deny asylum claims based on the lack of credibility .  the bill also overturns an even more disturbing ninth circuit precedent that has made it easier for terrorists to receive asylum .  the circuit has actually held that an alien can receive asylum on the basis that his or her government believes that the alien is a terrorist .  third , the real id act will waive federal laws to the extent necessary to complete gaps in the san diego border security fence which is still stymied 8 years after congressional authorization .  neither the public safety nor the environment are benefiting from the current stalemate .  finally , the real id act contains a common-sense provision that helps protect americans from terrorists who have infiltrated the united states .  currently , certain terrorism-related grounds of inadmissibility to our country are not also grounds for deportation of aliens already here .  the real id act makes aliens deportable from the united states for terrorism-related offenses to the same extent they would be inadmissible to the united states to begin with .  the act provides that any alien who knowingly provides funds or other material support to a terrorist organization will be subject to immigration consequences .  the real id act will make america a safer place .  it is even endorsed by the 9/11 families for a secure america , an association of family members of 9/11 victims .  i urge my colleagues to support this bill .  house of representatives , committee on the judiciary , washington , dc , february 9 , 2005 .  dear chairman barton : thank you for your letter , dated february 8 , 2005 , regarding h.r. 418 , the `` real id act. '' as you noted , some of the provisions of the bill contained in section 102 fall within the rule x jurisdiction of the committee on energy and commerce .  i appreciate your willingness to forgo consideration of the bill , and i acknowledge that by agreeing to waive its consideration of the bill , the committee on energy and commerce does not waive its jurisdiction over these provisions .  pursuant to your request , i will include a copy of your letter and this response in the congressional record during consideration of h.r. 418 on the house floor .  sincerely , f .  james sensenbrenner , jr. , house of representatives , committee on energy and commerce , washington , dc , february 8 , 2005 .  dear chairman sensenbrenner : i understand that you will shortly bring h.r. 418 , the real id act of 2005 , to the house floor .  this legislation contains provisions that fall within the jurisdiction of the committee on energy and commerce .  section 102 of the bill provides the secretary of homeland security with the authority to waive applicable environmental law , such as the resource conservation and recovery act ( rcra ) and the comprehensive environmental response , compensation , and liability act cercla , for the purpose of building roads and barriers .  as you know , rule x of the rules of the house of representatives gives the committee on energy and commerce jurisdiction over these statutes .  i recognize your desire to bring this legislation before the house in an expeditious manner .  accordingly , i will not exercise my committee 's right to a referral .  by agreeing to waive its consideration of the bill , however , the energy and commerce committee does not waive its jurisdiction over h.r. 418 .  in addition , the energy and commerce committee reserves its right to seek conferees on any provisions of the bill that are within its jurisdiction during any house-senate conference that may be convened on this or similar legislation .  i ask for your commitment to support any request by the energy and commerce committee for conferees on h.r. 418 or similar legislation .  i request that you include this letter in the congressional record during consideration of h.r. 418 .  thank you for your attention to these matters .  sincerely , joe barton , mr. chairman , i reserve the balance of my time .  mr. chairman , i yield myself the balance of the time .  mr. chairman , several speakers on the other side said that if this bill was law at the time of 9/11 , it would not have made any difference on what id the terrorists used to get on the planes .  that is flat out wrong .  what the bill say is that anyone who is admitted to this country on a temporary visa will have their driver 's license expire as to the date of their visa .  now , mohammed atta , who is the ring leader of 9/11 murderers , entered the united states on a 6-month visa .  that visa expired on july 9 , 2001 .  he got a driver 's license from the state of florida on may 5 , 2001 .  that was a 6-year driver 's license .  had this bill been in effect at the time , that driver 's license would have expired on july 9 , and he would not have been able to use that driver 's license to get on a plane because it was an expired id .  read the bill .  secondly , relative to the asylum issue , what this bill does is two things .  first of all , it says the burden of proof is on the applicant for asylum to prove that they qualify .  what is wrong with that ?  the burden of proof is on anybody who is the plaintiff or an applicant in any type of proceeding .  they have got to prove that they are entitled to the relief that they are requesting , and i will just read from page 3 of the bill .  in general .  the burden of proof is on the applicant to establish that the applicant is a refugee , within the meaning of the law .  to establish that the applicant is a refugee , the applicant must establish that race , religion , nationality or membership in a particular social group or political opinion was or will be the central reason for persecuting the applicant .  so nobody , nobody who falls under that definition will be denied asylum under this bill .  secondly , it says that in sustaining the burden , it allows the trier of fact , the immigration judge in this case , to determine the credibility of the witnesses .  now , the trier of the fact , whether it is a judge or a jury in any other legal proceeding , bases determinations on the credibility of the witnesses as to what verdict is reached .  without this bill , a person can come before an immigration judge , be determined by that judge that they are lying through their teeth , and still get asylum .  that is just flat out wrong , and it is a distortion of the type of jurisprudence that we have had where court proceedings are supposed to determine exactly what the truth is .  there is no one who is lying through their teeth that should be able to get relief from the courts , and i would just point out that this bill would give immigration judges the tool to get at the blind sheik who wanted to blow up landmarks in new york , the man who plotted and executed the bombing of the world trade center in new york , the man who shot up the entrance to the cia headquarters in northern virginia , and the man who shot up the el al counter at los angeles international airport .  every one of these non-9/11 terrorists who tried to kill or did kill honest , law-abiding americans was an asylum applicant .  we ought to give our judges the opportunity to tell these people no and to pass the bill .  mr. chairman , i claim the time in opposition .  mr. speaker , i rise in opposition to the motion to recommit .  mr. speaker , this bill does not require the states to do anything or not do anything .  it has been very clear from the beginning of the debate on this legislation .  what the bill does is it says that a driver 's license has to meet certain standards if it is to be acceptable for federal id purposes , such as getting on an airplane .  what the motion to recommit does is force the states to do something , or not do something ; and that goes directly against the notion of federalism that is contained in this bill and which was drafted by the committee on government reform .  the first vote that we had yesterday on this legislation was on whether we should waive the law relative to unfunded mandates .  the vote on that was 228 `` aye '' to 191 `` no. '' the author of this motion to recommit , as well as the 190 who joined him in saying that we should not waive the unfunded mandate law , is now asking the states to have another unfunded mandate .  i would urge all of the 191 who voted `` no '' on the jackson-lee objection to consideration of the rule to bring this up to join me in voting `` no '' on this motion to recommit , together with the 228 who voted the right way yesterday .  vote `` no '' on the motion to recommit ; vote `` aye '' on passage .  mr. speaker , on that i demand the yeas and nays .  mr. speaker , by direction of the committee on rules , i call up house resolution 71 and ask for its immediate consideration .  mr. speaker , i yield myself such time as i may consume .  i will perhaps apologize to the gentlewoman from texas .  i had thought that the minority was well equipped to have a document which i will enter into the record from the congressional budget office , a cost estimate dated february 7 , 2005 , concerning h.r. 418 , the real id act of 2005 , which is a summary of the issues that the gentlewoman from texas is bringing up .  the information that the gentlewoman is referencing is addressed within this document by the cbo .  if i could , i would like to summarize for the gentlewoman , pending such time as we get her a copy of this , and i apologize that evidently one has not been provided to her .  and i quote : `` as a result , the additional costs that would be imposed by h.r. 418 , the real id act of 2005 , would not exceed the annual threshold established in the unfunded mandates act , $ 62 million in 2005 , '' which is the annual adjustment rate for inflation .  this bill authorized appropriations for grants to states and appropriations would be under that amount .  and i would be pleased to make sure that the gentlewoman has that at this time .  h.r. 418 -- real id act of 2005 summary : h.r. 418 would authorize the appropriation of such sums as necessary for fiscal years 2005 through 2009 for the department of homeland security ( dhs ) to make grants to states to cover the costs of improving the security of driver 's licenses as required by the bill .  the legislation also would make changes to current immigration law that aim to prevent the entry of suspected terrorists into the united states .  cbo estimates that implementing h.r. 418 would cost about $ 100 million over the 2005-2010 period , assuming appropriation of the necessary amounts .  enacting the bill would not affect direct spending or receipts .  h.r. 418 contains several intergovernmental mandates as defined in the unfunded mandates reform act ( umra ) .  cbo estimates that those mandates would impose incremental costs on state , local , and some tribal governments above what they will likely spend under current law .  cbo estimates that costs to those governments will total more than $ 100 million over the 2005-2009 period under current law .  by comparison , we estimate that such costs would total about $ 120 million ( over the 2006-2010 period ) under h.r. 418 .  as a result , the additional costs that would be imposed by h.r. 418 would not exceed the annual threshold established in umra ( $ 62 million in 2005 , adjusted annually for inflation ) .  the bill would authorize appropriations for grants to states to cover their costs .  this bill contains no new private-sector mandates as defined in umra .  estimated cost to the federal government : the estimated budgetary impact of h.r. 418 is shown in the following table .  the costs of this legislation fall within budget function 750 ( administration of justice ) .  basis of estimate : the intelligence reform and terrorism prevention act of 2004 ( pub .  l. 108-458 ) authorized the appropriation of such sums as necessary for fiscal years 2005 through 2009 for the department of transportation to make grants to states to cover the costs of improving the security of driver 's licenses as required by that act .  h.r. 418 would repeal those provisions of public law 108-458 , shift the responsibility of administering this program from the department of transportation to dhs , and require state and local governments to comply with more stringent provisions than under current law .  h.r. 418 would authorize the appropriation of such sums as necessary for fiscal years 2005 through 2009 for dhs to make grants to states to cover the costs of complying with the bill 's provisions .  requirements for driver 's licenses and identification cards public law 108-458 created federal standards for issuing driver 's licenses and identification cards and also imposed intergovernmental mandates on state , local , and some tribal governments .  that law , however , gave broad authority to the department of transportation to negotiate the specific requirements of those standards .  based on information from federal , state , and local agencies , cbo assumes that the process for a negotiated rulemaking will give state and local governments the opportunity to help shape federal standards ; those standards are thus likely to be less costly to implement than the requirements of h.r. 418 .  in contrast , the provisions of h.r. 418 are more specific and likely would go beyond what will be required under current law .  specifically , state-licensing agencies would be required to verify the documents presented as proof of identification , residency , and citizenship status .  many of the agencies that issue those documents charge a fee for verification services .  licensing agencies also would have to upgrade computer systems to verify documents and to digitize and store electronic copies of all source documents .  finally , some states that do not currently require background checks for certain employees would face additional costs to complete those checks .  cbo estimates that these additional requirements in h.r. 418 would impose costs above those incurred under current law .  based on information from state representatives , cbo estimates that dhs would spend about $ 20 million over the five-year period to reimburse states for the cost of complying with the legislation , subject to appropriation of the necessary amounts .  driver license agreement in addition , h.r. 418 would require states to participate in the driver license agreement , an interstate database to share driver information that was not included in public law 108-458 .  based on information from the government accountability office and the american association of motor vehicle administrators , cbo estimates that it would cost $ 80 million over three years to reimburse states for the cost to establish and maintain the database .  barriers at u.s.-mexico border the illegal immigration reform and immigration responsibility act provided for the construction of a series of roads and fences along the u.s.-mexico border near san diego to deter entry of illegal immigrants .  all but about three miles of this barrier have been completed .  since february 2004 , completion of the barrier has been delayed because of environmental conflicts with the coastal zone management act ( czma ) .  h.r. 418 would permit dhs to waive this act and any other laws as necessary to complete construction of the barrier .  dhs estimates that it has spent about $ 30 million thus far on the barrier and that it will cost an additional $ 32 million to complete the project .  the agency has less than $ 2 million in unspent funds , which are currently being used to identify acceptable alternative plans to complete the barrier .  in addition , the czma already enables the president under certain circumstances to waive laws as necessary to complete projects deemed of paramount interest to the united states .  other provisions finally , cbo estimates that the bill 's provisions , designed to prevent the entry of suspected terrorists into the united states , would have no significant costs because similar screening procedures already exist .  estimated impact on state , local , and tribal governments : procedures for processing and issuing driver 's licenses and identification cards under current law are in the process of changing due to federal legislation enacted in december 2004 .  the intelligence reform and terrorism prevention act of 2004 created federal standards for states to follow in issuing driver 's licenses and identification cards .  cbo considers these standards to be mandates because any driver 's licenses or identification cards issued after that time would be invalid for federal identification purposes unless they met those requirements .  cbo estimates that those enacted mandates will impose costs on state , local , and some tribal governments over the 2005-2009 period totaling new mandates with significant additional costs h.r. 418 would repeal public law 108-458 and replace it with several new and more stringent intergovernmental mandates for processing and issuing driver 's licenses and identification cards .  based on information from federal agency and state representatives , cbo estimates that those mandates would impose incremental costs on state , local , and some tribal governments above what they will likely spend under current law .  cbo estimates that costs to those governments will total more than $ 100 million over the 2005-2009 period under current law .  by comparison , we estimate that such costs would total about $ 120 million ( over the 2006-2010 period ) under h.r. 418 .  as a result , the additional costs that would be imposed by h.r. 418 would not exceed the annual threshold established in umra ( $ 62 million in 2005 , adjusted annually for inflation ) .  the bill would authorize appropriations for grants to states to cover their costs .  public law 108-458 created federal standards for issuing driver 's licenses and identification cards and also imposed intergovernmental mandates on state , local , and some tribal governments .  that law , however , gave broad authority to the secretary of the department of transportation to negotiate the specific requirements of those standards .  based on information from state and local government representatives , cbo assumes that the process for a negotiated rulemaking will give state and local governments the opportunity to help shape federal standards ; those standards are thus likely to be less costly to implement than the requirements of this bill .  in contrast , the provisions of h.r. 418 are more specific and likely would go beyond what will be required under current law .  specifically , state-licensing agencies would be required to verify with the issuing agency ( many that charge a fee for such verifications ) each document presented as proof of identification , residency , and citizenship status .  those state agencies also would have to upgrade computer systems to verify documents and to digitize and store electronic copies of all source documents .  finally , certain states that do not currently require background checks for certain employees would face additional costs to complete those checks .  cbo estimates that these additional requirements in h.r. 418 would impose costs above those that will be imposed by the mandates in current law .  the incremental additional costs , however , are unlikely , by themselves , to exceed the annual threshold established in umra in any one year .  mandates with no significant additional costs the bill also contains several other intergovernmental mandates .  cbo expects , however , that these requirements would probably not impose significant additional costs on state , local , or tribal governments .  specifically , the bill would : authorize the secretary of the department of homeland security to waive any laws necessary to complete construction of a physical barrier between the united states and mexico near san diego , california , and prohibit any court from having jurisdiction to hear claims or ordering relief for damage resulting from the waiver of such laws .  this provision would preempt state authority .  require states to implement training classes for employees to identify fraudulent documents ; and require documents and supplies to be securely stored .  according to state officials , it is likely that states currently comply with those requirements .  prohibit states from accepting any foreign document , other than an official passport , for identification purposes for the issuance of driver 's licenses .  currently , at least 10 states accept identification cards issued by foreign governments , such as the `` matricula consular '' issued by mexico .  this prohibition would preempt state authority .  require states to resolve any discrepancies that arise from verifying social security numbers , though the language is unclear as to what specific actions would be required .  currently , at least two states prohibit their employees from enforcing immigration laws , and many of those discrepancies may be related to immigration .  this requirement might preempt those state laws .  require that driver 's licenses and identification cards be valid for no more than eight years .  currently two states , arizona and colorado , are valid for longer than eight years .  these provisions would preempt those state laws and impose two to four years of additional staff costs to reissue the licenses sooner than expected .  those costs would not be incurred until eight years after the bill is enacted .  in addition , four other states -- montana , new mexico , oregon , and wisconsin -- issue driver 's licenses and identification cards that are valid for eight years .  the bill authorizes the secretary to further limit the validity of licenses and these states , as well as others , may be affected if the secretary exercises such authority .  this provision would preempt state authority .  authorize the secretary to prescribe the design formats of driver 's licenses and identification cards to protect national security and allow for clear visual differentiation between levels and categories of documents .  such design has traditionally been determined by states and under current law ; any standards developed under the provisions of public law 108-458 may not require a single design .  this provision would preempt state authority .  other impacts on state and local governments in addition to the other requirements of the bill , states would be required to participate in the driver license agreement , an interstate compact to share driver information .  any costs to state governments would be incurred voluntarily as a condition of receiving federal assistance .  estimated impact on the private sector : this bill contains no new private-sector mandates as defined in umra .  estimate prepared by : federal costs : mark grabowicz ; impact on state , local , and tribal governments : melissa merrell ; and impact on the private sector : paige piper/bach .  estimate approved by : peter h. fontaine , deputy assistant director for budget analysis .  mr. speaker , i reserve the balance of my time .  mr. speaker , i yield myself such time as i may consume .  mr. speaker , i do appreciate and respect the gentleman from michigan 's joining with the gentlewoman from texas in bringing this issue before the house today .  i would offer perhaps a different vision or view of the words that the gentleman has spoken .  i believe that the republican majority did sponsor the legislation for the unfunded mandates act ; however , i believe at the time that was done , there was a general understanding that unfunded mandates would have a threshold that was necessary to be met so that we would have to appropriately understand those items when we would have an unfunded mandate that would be necessary for us to understand what we were placing upon the states or municipalities that we would not then appropriate money to .  the gentleman is at least correct that the republican majority did introduce this legislation and pass it .  however , the threshold that was established at that time , now as a result of inflation several years later , we are aware of , and that is why we have made sure to ask the question about what we are imposing on states for this very important issue that is within the jurisdiction of these states , but as a result of the needs of this great nation to address driver 's license inconsistencies and the integrity behind those .  we believe it is necessary .  so for the gentleman to bring this point of order with the gentlewoman from texas , purely appropriate , i would remind all of my colleagues that we have addressed this issue , that cbo has been very clear that we do not reach those thresholds which would trigger this sort of point of order .  so i would ask that my colleagues would pay attention not only to this argument but to understand that we have not violated any rule as it relates to the unfunded mandate .  mr. speaker , i reserve the balance of my time .  mr. speaker , i yield myself such time as i may consume .  mr. speaker , the gentlewoman from texas has politely articulated something that i believe is misguided and inappropriate .  the congressional budget office is a professional organization that assists the united states congress in knowing in a nonpartisan way those impacts of the laws that we pass , and i have respectfully made sure that the gentlewoman had a copy and had been advised that before she came to the floor , evidently , the minority was in possession of this new document of 2005 .  and the committee on rules , in a meeting that we had yesterday where we considered this legislation , had to understand the implications or some of the implications as it related to this act , and we rely upon the current information that has come from the congressional budget office .  so i am very disappointed that my colleague has chosen to think that we have placed pressure upon this professional organization , that we have fudged the numbers ; and i would say to the gentlewoman from texas that that , i believe , is not only an unfair accusation to this member but , more specifically , to the congressional budget office , which i believe is a professional organization , delivers a product that they put their name on and makes available to all who might read it .  so i respectfully disagree with the gentlewoman , do not accept the characterization that she has given to this member or to the congressional budget office , and would hope that the gentlewoman would find the time perhaps later in the day to bring this issue up upon full scrutiny of the documentation to recognize that , in fact , the professional conduct of the congressional budget office was correct in their assertion .  mr. speaker , i reserve the balance of my time .  mr. speaker , i yield myself such time as i may consume .  mr. speaker , we have had an opportunity to hear from the gentlewoman from texas about a document that is old , that contained the best estimate and work at the time from the congressional budget office .  i have made available to the gentlewoman from texas and for each and every member of this body to see that the congressional budget office has very clearly talked about the costs that would be associated with what might be known as an unfunded mandate .  we believe , and they have concurred from the congressional budget office that we are well within budgetary amounts to where we would not trigger this unfunded mandate clause .  i think it is important that we do have this law .  i am glad we have debates over how much burden we are placing upon states or municipalities , but in this case , i would urge my colleagues to understand that we have the official document that is as of yesterday by the congressional budget office ; and i would ask that they would support our position , knowing that we have fallen within the rules of the house .  mr. speaker , as a result of this , i would simply say that our position is , we value and hold and believe we are well within the rules of the house of representatives .  mr. speaker , i would like to inquire of the time remaining for both sides .  mr. speaker , i reserve the balance of my time .  mr. speaker , i yield back the balance of my time , and i move the previous question on the resolution .  the previous question was ordered .  the resolution was agreed to .  a motion to reconsider was laid on the table .  mr. speaker , by direction of the committee on rules , i call up house resolution 75 and ask for its immediate consideration .  mr. speaker , i yield myself such time as i may consume .  mr. speaker , i do understand that not everybody is in agreement about what we are doing today , but for the members that are paying attention , the 9/11 terrorist travel report of the national commission on terrorist attacks upon the united states , known as the 9/11 commission , said on page 43 , and i would like to quote this : `` september 11 : as the hijackers boarded four flights , american airlines flights 11 and 77 , and united airlines flights 93 and 175 , at least six hijackers used u.s. identification documents obtained and acquired in the previous months , three of which were fraudulently obtained in northern virginia. '' mr. speaker , we would have to really not respect this 9/11 commission if we were not going to follow up on the work that they did .  that is why we are here today .  we are here for the best reason , for the security of this great nation and the wonderful people who care and entrust upon the united states congress the ability to make sure we do all that we can to avoid attacks in the future .  mr. speaker , i would like to advise the gentleman from florida ( mr. hastings )  that at this time i do not have additional speakers .  mr. speaker , i yield back the balance of my time , and i move the previous question on the resolution .  the previous question was ordered .  mr. chairman , i thank the gentleman for asking .  the impetus behind this is , these are aliens who have been ordered deported by a federal judge as a result of a hearing , who do not show up .  they have had their day in court .  the process is through .  they have been ordered deported , and only 13 percent actually are deported .  mr. speaker , i thank the gentleman for yielding me this time , and i rise in strong support both of this rule and the underlying bill , the real id act .  i also want to thank the gentleman from wisconsin ( mr. sensenbrenner )  for his effort in bringing this legislation to the floor .  all of the reforms contained in the real id act are crucial to our national security interests , and all of them will help make america less vulnerable to terrorist attack .  the bill 's provisions include long-overdue and very common-sense safeguards that were recommended specifically by the 9/11 commission .  let me point out just one of those .  `` secure identification should begin in the united states , '' wrote the bipartisan 9/11 commission .  they went on to say , `` the federal government should set standards for the issuance of birth certificates and sources of identification , such as driver 's licenses .  fraud in identification documents is no longer just a problem of theft .  at many entry points to vulnerable facilities , including gates for boarding aircraft , sources of identification are the last opportunity to ensure that people are who they say they are and to check whether they are terrorists. '' the bipartisan 9-11 commission called for this legislation .  just a moment ago i heard one of my colleagues say this legislation does not improve upon the bill we passed dealing with the issue just a few months ago .  i beg to disagree .  her point was , it does not address the issue of those who are here illegally , yet it very much does so .  a provision of this bill pushed by my colleague , the gentleman from arizona ( mr. flake )  , for a number of years , provides that a driver 's license may not have an expiration date beyond the date upon which someone 's visa expires .  that would specifically go to people here illegally .  let me point out how it would have applied to the 9/11 hijackers .  looking at nawaf alhazmi , his visa expired in january of 2001 , yet he got a florida 's driver 's license in june of 2001 , he got a virginia id card in august of 2001 , and he got a reissued virginia id card in september of 2001 .  a second hijacker , hani hanjour was in the same situation .  he was in violation of his visa when he obtained a virginia state id in august of 2001 and a maryland id in september of 2001 .  these are critical reforms to making america safer .  i urge my colleagues to vote for both the rule and the underlying legislation .  mr. chairman , welcome to the world of mohammed atta : legal visa to come in , 6 months ; driver 's license from florida , 6 years .  like many in this chamber , i was a strong supporter of the intelligence reform legislation passed last year , but when i voted for it , i believed we needed to go further in several areas , including strengthening driver 's license guidelines .  in my home state of connecticut , we take strong steps to ensure the integrity of our identification cards , but we are not perfect .  to receive a driver 's license in connecticut , you must prove you are a legal resident of the state , and you are not a legal resident of the state if you are not legally present in the united states , period .  this is common sense to me .  driver 's licenses are verifiable forms of identification in the united states .  providing such identification cards to people who are illegally present in our country presents serious concerns .  the problem , however , is that not all states maintain this high standard .  that means that someone who is illegally present in the united states and takes advantage of a weak law in another state can obtain a driver 's license and use the document to identify him or herself in the state of connecticut .  they can also use that document to access federal buildings , rent a vehicle or get on a plane .  tightening access to state-issued identification cards is an important and necessary improvement for our homeland security .  many members have raised concerns about the impact of driver 's license provisions in h.r. 418 in our home states .  connecticut governor jodi rell stated , `` in my view , if a noncitizen is lawfully in this country , he or she should be able to obtain a driver 's license for the time frame in which he is lawfully allowed to be here .  conversely , if someone is in this country illegally , he or she should not be able to obtain a driver 's license in connecticut or any other state. '' i could not agree more with her .  frankly , most of our constituents could not agree more with her .  let me raise one other point about this legislation and commend the chairman for including this provision .  a legally present visitor to the united states can obtain a driver 's license in connecticut , as he can in other states .  however , in connecticut we issue licenses for 6 years at a time .  in that time , visitors can leave and come back , whether legally or illegally , an untold number of times .  during subsequent visits , this person can continue to use the license for whatever purpose he or she wants .  this is wrong .  frankly , it is stupid .  requiring a temporary id for persons temporarily in our country is a no-brainer .  i do not think mohammed atta would like it , but , i do not care what he wants .  mr. chairman , i thank the gentleman from wisconsin ( chairman sensenbrenner ) for yielding me time .  mr. chairman , this bill is the first step back on the long road to real homeland security .  first , this bill prevents terrorists and others from getting driver 's licenses by requiring applicants to prove that they are in the country legally .  driver 's licenses can be used to board an aircraft , open a bank account and get a job .  to preserve our security , we must deny terrorists the ability to obtain this form of identification .  in addition , this legislation makes it harder for terrorists to exploit our asylum system .  it also requires the completion of the 14-mile san diego border fence , which congress approved in 1996 .  finally , mr. chairman , this legislation strengthens our ability to deport terrorists .  current law makes terrorists inadmissible for certain offenses but not deportable for those same offenses .  congress can improve homeland security by passing this legislation .  but if the administration wants to continue to protect the lives of americans , it can also take immediate steps to change policies that have encouraged illegal immigration .  it should start by requesting funding for all of the border enforcement positions that congress authorized last year .  the president 's budget only requests enough funds for 210 new border patrol agents , even though congress authorized 2 , 000 new agents .  further , the administration must start fining employers for hiring illegal immigrants .  last year it did not fine a single employer .  the administration also should change its policy of recognizing consular identification cards issued by other countries .  these cards are simply not secure or reliable .  they give terrorists and illegal aliens another way to remain undetected in the united states .  mr. chairman , the real id act marks the beginning of an effort to make america safer .  i hope the administration will fully support us in this effort .  mr. speaker , i thank my distinguished colleague for yielding me time .  mr. speaker , i rise today in favor of the rule and in support of the underlying bill , the real id act .  this is probably one of the most important bills that we will have to vote on in the 109th congress .  the bill obviously will strengthen our borders , improve the rule of law , and protect our national security .  it builds upon the recommendations of the 9/11 commission .  these are things they have talked about and had recommended , and it begins to respond to the pleas of the many families who lost loved ones on that terrible day .  it implements much needed driver 's license reform .  now , driver 's licenses have become the primary id in the united states .  it enables individuals to go get other identity documents , to transfer funds to u.s. bank accounts , obtain access to federal buildings and other vulnerable facilities , purchase a firearm , rent a car , board a plane , et cetera .  so lax standards and loopholes in the current issue process allow terrorists to obtain driver 's licenses , often multiple licenses from different states , and abuse the license for identification purposes .  the real id act corrects this .  identification documents are the last opportunity to ensure that the people are who they say they are and to check whether they are terrorists .  the real id act would require applicants to provide proof that they are in this country legally .  currently , 11 states do not have such a requirement , meaning the majority of states have already recognized the need for tighter requirements and standards , but unnecessary and dangerous gaps still exist in this system .  so that is why we need this .  i urge my colleagues to support the rule and the bill .  mr. speaker , i rise today in strong support of the emergency wartime supplemental , especially the provision that would postpone reducing the number of navy aircraft carriers from 12 to 11 .  our nation is at war against global terrorism and reducing the number of aircraft carriers would be a huge blow to our nation 's defense at this very critical time .  since the end of the cold war , carriers have been kept very busy and have proven their value in numerous operations .  in this era of uncertain u.s. access to overseas air bases , the value of carriers as sovereign u.s. bases that can operate in international waters , free from political constraints , is particularly significant .  during the past half century , the carrier force has never dropped below 12 ships , illustrating the enduring need for a force of at least that many ships .  after experimenting with an `` 11 + 1 '' carrier force in fy1995-fy2000 , dod returned to a force of 12 fully active carriers , suggesting that dod was dissatisfied with a force of less than 12 fully active carriers .  this provision in the supplemental would effectively delay the decommissioning of the uss kennedy until 6 months after the quadrennial defense review is released .  the kennedy is based at the mayport naval station near jacksonville , florida .  aside from concerns of this move striking a blow to national security , the carrier 's retirement would mean an estimated loss of $ 300 million a year to the local economy .  furthermore , if the kennedy were retired , all of the atlantic fleet 's carriers would be , for some time at least , home ported in a single location .  this , of course , would not be in the best interest of national security .  decommissioning the kennedy before the qdr is complete could prove to be a very costly and ill-timed decision .  the qdr may conclude that a fleet of 12 aircraft carriers is essential to our nation , thus necessitating that the uss kennedy be operational .  in a time of war , it is unwise to retire an aircraft carrier without knowing whether or not it will be needed .  mr. speaker , i urge members of congress to carefully examine the effects that retiring the kennedy and reducing the number of carriers would not only have on our nation , but the world at large .  please join me in supporting the supplemental and the provision that keeps the number of carriers in the navy 's fleet contained therein .  mr. speaker , i rise in strong support of this rule and h.r. 418 , the real id act of 2005 .  the 9/11 commission report stated that the abuse of the immigration system and a lack of interior immigration enforcement were unwittingly working together to support terrorist activity .  this bill will establish common-sense requirements for proof of identification for all driver 's licenses and state-issued identification cards .  this would stop the abuse of our asylum system by terrorist aliens and finish construction of a border fence that will secure one of the most trafficked corridors for illegal aliens and safeguard the united states naval base in san diego , california .  we know that all but one of the 9/11 hijackers acquired some type of u.s. identification documents .  in fact , the 19 hijackers had 63 driver 's licenses among them .  these licenses assisted the terrorists in boarding commercial flights , renting cars and other activities necessary to carry out their horrible plans .  this legislation ensures that terrorists will not be able to game our system any longer and we can not allow mass murderers into our country any longer .  mr. speaker , according to the u.s. immigration and customs enforcement agency , more than 3 million illegal aliens came across our border last year , and i bet probably more than that .  we have no idea where they are or where they are from .  however we do know that during the 9-month period from october , 2003 , through june , 2004 , over 44 , 000 non-mexican aliens were caught trying to cross the northern and southern u.s. borders .  among these aliens , several hundred were from the mideast countries unfriendly to the united states .  without this legislation , many more will come ; and this is a risk we can not afford to take .  mr. chairman , i thank the gentleman for his leadership on this most important issue affecting our country .  i am a cosponsor of the real id act that calls for necessary reforms in our driver 's license processes to make it harder for terrorists to obtain driver 's license to use them for acts of violence in our country .  driver 's licenses can be used by terrorists to enter buildings , obtain other forms of identification , and board flights .  the loopholes that currently exist in issuing driver 's licenses have to be closed to stop those who would use driver 's licenses as a tool in committing terrorist acts on our own soil .  in fact , as we have heard , we know that many of the hijackers who attacked our nation on september 11 possessed valid driver 's licenses and many other state-issued identity cards .  the real id act would require applicants to prove that they are in this country legally .  the debate here somewhat surprises me because i bet if you asked the american people if in order to get a driver 's license , if you have to prove that you are in this country legally , overwhelmingly i believe the people in this country would believe that not only is it the right thing to do but they would be surprised to find out that it is not already a requirement .  the 9/11 commission stated that all but one of the 9/11 hijackers acquired some form of u.s. identification , and that for terrorists travel documents are as important as weapons .  and their recommendation stated secure identification should begin in the united states .  the federal government should set standards for the issuance of birth certificates and sources of identification such as driver 's licenses .  last year as we heard the steady beat to implement the 9/11 commission recommendations , certainly , their recommendation that the federal government have standards for driver 's licenses is something that we ought to enact , and i support this bill .  mr. chairman , i yield myself the balance of my time .  i thank my coauthors , the gentleman from wisconsin ( mr. kind )  and the gentlewoman from north carolina ( mrs. myrick )  .  i want to say it is not an easy task taking on the gentleman from california ( mr. lewis )  .  i too would like to say i am voting for final passage of the supplemental .  it is important that we have adequate resources for all of our troops .  i have been to iraq twice .  i have been to the current embassy in baghdad twice as well .  i have seen the improvements .  we have spent something like $ 100 million already trying to make that facility safe .  it is within the green zone .  this new embassy where they want to build is just down the river .  frankly , i would have preferred to see it go where camp victory is .  i asked that question , in fact , yesterday .  i was not very pleased with the answer that i got , but maybe in a few more months we will get it right and put it someplace that would be truly safe for all of our folks that are there .  at the end of the day , those are the questions that all of us should be asking .  whether it be in an authorization bill that came through this congress the last year or in the omnibus bill or in the president 's budget for fiscal year 2006 , this bill no matter what train track it is on will not get to the president until may .  we ought to take the time to do this right , to ask the right questions and to make sure that all of our people , whether they work for the state department or whether they work for the armed services , have the right resources ; but it ought to go the regular order .  that is the way this house ought to operate .  mr. chairman , i demand a recorded vote .  mr. chairman , i thank the gentlewoman from new york ( mrs. kelly )  .  the gentlewoman is right , charles taylor has been responsible for having dealings with al qaeda and conflict diamonds .  charles taylor was the one responsible for cutting off arms and legs of young people in sierra leone and in liberia .  i think the gentlewoman is right , nigeria should return charles taylor so he can have a fair trial .  i think the administration has a moral obligation to ask the nigerians and get him back to go before the court .  mr. speaker , i rise in strong support of the conference report to fund urgent supplemental requirements for the military .  for the state department , we have included just over $ 2 billion , a reduction of $ 199 million from the president 's request .  the bill includes the necessary funds to maintain our diplomatic presence in iraq and afghanistan , and for allowing our personnel to carry out their duties in the safest and most secure manner .  iraq and afghanistan are the front lines of our foreign policy .  this conference report provides the necessary resources for operations , logistics , and security in those dangerous , but critically important , parts of the world .  there is also $ 592 million to allow state to move quickly to build a secure compound in baghdad and , as the gentleman from missouri ( mr. blunt )  said , these facilities are not secure now , and they are needed .  this money will result in the completion of a secure living and working compound facility within 24 months .  the $ 680 million , $ 100 million below the president 's request , pays for the u.s. share of ongoing peacekeeping missions , including a new mission for sudan , where it is absolutely critical , now that there is a north-south peace .  and , by sending this mission there , hopefully , it will bring peace to darfur .  the conference report also includes $ 241.6 million for domestic appropriations to support the war on terror , including fbi counterterrorism efforts and , for dea , a counternarcotics program in afghanistan .  finally , it includes $ 17.2 million to jump-start the improvement of the united states tsunami warning capabilities on both coasts .  the conference report before us provides funding for important security measures for our diplomatic personnel , for our ongoing state department and justice department commitments , and i strongly urge support of the conference report .  mr. chairman , i compliment the gentleman from california ( chairman lewis ) for having brought this first of many important appropriation bills to the floor .  he explained the defense part of this bill very well , as well as he should because he has served superbly as chairman of the defense subcommittee for many years .  our portion of the bill is just a little over $ 73 billion , and it is to provide for the warfighters , to provide the equipment that they need and the protection that they need as they go about carrying out their mission .  i want to take just a few seconds and comment on the issue that the gentleman from pennsylvania ( mr. murtha )  raised because we have worked together on this section of the bill from the very beginning , along with the gentleman from california ( mr. hunter )  and the gentleman from missouri ( mr. skelton )  of the committee on armed services , the gentleman from california ( chairman lewis ) and the gentleman from wisconsin ( mr. obey )  .  this is truly a work of bipartisanship .  but on the subject of accountability , there is no reason that i can think of other than the importance of the legislative branch of government that article i of the constitution establishes the legislative branch of government .  we have three branches , separate but equal , but right after the preamble the first article is the legislative branch .  so i do not know whether that means we are a little more equal , but i do know that we control the money .  and as i have referred to so many times , and i will continue when it is necessary , it says `` no money shall be drawn from the treasury , but in consequence of appropriations made by law. '' that means nobody can spend money , federal money , unless we appropriate it .  but part of that section that does not get referred to very often says in the same sentence , `` and a regular statement and account of the receipts and expenditures of all public money shall be published from time to time. '' so we think that is just as important , and we , the gentleman from pennsylvania ( mr. murtha )  , myself , the gentleman from california ( mr. lewis )  , the gentleman from wisconsin ( mr. obey )  have just recently met with representatives of the defense department .  the gentleman from pennsylvania ( mr. murtha )  and i just recently sent a letter to the secretary of defense outlining our concerns .  i think we have made that point very well .  what we do in this supplemental is to provide , as the gentleman from california ( chairman lewis ) has mentioned , body armor , the uparmored humvees , ammunition , and medical care .  we provide the soldiers that are fighting in the war with what they need to accomplish their mission and what they need to protect themselves while they are accomplishing their mission .  and the specific details of the bill have been made available to members if they want to see all of the items that are funded in this bill .  i would like to make a brief closing statement that if we are going to get our troops out of iraq , and we are , and we want them out as soon as we possibly can , and as difficult as it is to state a specific date , but the way we are going to get our troops out , our exit strategy is to provide training to the iraqis so they can protect themselves from these terrible , violent insurgent terrorists .  part of the money in this bill goes to do just that , to train the iraqis to protect themselves so that they can have a self-government with some semblance of security .  so part of the money will allow the iraqis to get the training that they need .  that is our exit strategy .  let them take over from the american troops , and our american troops will come home .  and in the meantime , say a prayer for them , the ones that are over there still .  they are still in harm 's way .  they are doing a really great job .  their attitude is mr. speaker , i thank the chairman of the committee on appropriations for yielding me this time .  the gentleman from pennsylvania ( mr. murtha )  , the ranking member on our defense subcommittee , has explained the bill quite thoroughly as it relates to the war fighters .  the biggest part of this supplemental is for war fighters , and the bill that we have put together goes just to that issue .  the increases that we have added in this bill go to the urgently needed items such as ammunition , weapons , up-armored humvees , transport vehicles , jammers , night vision equipment , radios , add-on armor kits ; and the list goes on and on .  and i include a list of those items that are for the war fighter and force protection , mr. speaker .  the gentleman from pennsylvania ( mr. murtha )  and the gentleman from california ( chairman lewis ) and i and many of our colleagues have visited our hospitals to visit with our soldiers and marines at walter reed and at bethesda naval hospital and also at landstuhl , where many of our servicemen come first before they get transported back to the united states , and we have located a number of areas where the government just does not take care of these soldiers and the marines .  and this bill goes a long way towards taking care of that .  it has been pretty generally known that we have in this bill increased the death benefit for those who make the total sacrifice and lose their lives in working and supporting the nation 's security .  we have also increased the service group life insurance programs substantially so that those who prefer to take part in that program can have additional benefits , and many of these benefits are really needed .  and the gentleman from pennsylvania ( mr. murtha )  referred to this , but i want to take just a minute and explain .  we added , basically , a new program , and that is for a traumatic injury insurance benefit for members of the service .  we provide up to $ 100 , 000 to compensate for injuries such as loss of sight , losing a hand or a foot , or other debilitating injuries .  and these benefits would be retroactive to october of 2001 , when the war started .  there are many soldiers and marines today who have been wounded so seriously that in previous wars would have died on the battlefield but who are living today in this war because of improved and increased medical benefits and better training and better medicines and the ability to transport from the battlefield to a medical facility .  so these soldiers and marines are hurt really bad , and we have an obligation to take care of them , and this bill goes a long way toward beginning that process , to take care of things for our heroes and our fallen heroes who have not been taken care of by the government properly .  the material previously referred to is as follows : conference agreement for additional equipment missile procurement , army : itas/tow mods 30 , 000 procurement of weapons and tracked combat vehicles , army : bradley reactive armor tiles 20 , 000 stryker 69 , 540 small arms modifications 55 , 200 procurement of ammunition , army : ammunition industrial base 57 , 800 other procurement , army : up-armored idmwvs ( m1114 ) 150 , 000 other hmmwvs ( m1151 ) 80 , 000 225 , 000 114 , 000 add-on armor kits 48 , 000 sincgars family 30 , 000 improved hf radios ( including prc-150 and prc-148 ) 17 , 000 jammers ( warlock including low cost jammer ) 60 , 000 night vision devices 59 , 000 counter rocket artillery and mortar system ( cram ) 75 , 000 force xxi battle command brigade and below ( fbcb2 ) 66 , 100 handheld stand-off mine detection system ( hstamids ) 10 , 000 & lt ; p & gt ; & amp ; nbsp ; & amp ; nbsp ; & amp ; nbsp ; & lt ; p & gt ; & amp ; nbsp ; & amp ; nbsp ; & amp ; nbsp ; army total : & lt ; p & gt ; & amp ; nbsp ; & amp ; nbsp ; & amp ; nbsp ; 1 , 166 , 640 procurement of ammunition , navy and marine corps : small arms ammunition 6 , 000 procurement , marine corps : light armored vehicle ( lav ) 175 , 000 night vision equipment 54 , 000 radio systems ( including eplrs , prc-117 and hf communications vehicle ) 55 , 000 hmmwvs 30 , 000 & lt ; p & gt ; & amp ; nbsp ; & amp ; nbsp ; & amp ; nbsp ; & lt ; p & gt ; & amp ; nbsp ; & amp ; nbsp ; & amp ; nbsp ; marine corps total : & lt ; p & gt ; & amp ; nbsp ; & amp ; nbsp ; & amp ; nbsp ; 320 , 000 grand total : 1 , 486 , 640 & lt ; p & gt ; mr. chairman , i rise today in support of h.r. 418 , the real id act of 2005 .  first , i would like to thank chairman sensenbrenner and the judiciary committee for their leadership on this bill , and for their dedication to securing our borders and protecting americans from terrorists .  my objective throughout debate over h.r. 10 was to get a bill that fully addressed all of our nation 's security concerns .  that means not only reforming how we gather and use intelligence , but also how we fight terrorism at home .  i believe that the final bill that came to the floor fell short .  that 's why i voted against it .  however , the real id act implements crucial provisions that were dropped from h.r. 10 and fixes several glaring holes in our border security .  one of the most important provisions in this legislation asks states to work with the department of homeland security to establish and use standards for drivers ' licenses .  many states already have licenses that are difficult to counterfeit .  other states do n't have stringent safeguards .  some have argued that this bill creates a national id .  it does n't .  i would oppose any bill that did so .  this bill simply requires states to make it harder for someone like muhammad atta to get a driver 's license , and to use that license to carry out terror plans .  as the 9/11 commission noted : `` all but one of the 9/11 hijackers acquired some form of u.s. identification document , some by fraud. '' increased id security will make it more difficult for terrorists to obtain documents through fraud and conceal their identity .  deterring terrorists from receiving state issued ids will make it more likely that they will be detected by law enforcement .  this bill also tightens our asylum system -- a system that has been abused by terrorists with deadly consequences -- by allowing judges to determine whether asylum seekers are truthful .  additionally , the bill will protect the american people by ensuring that grounds for keeping a terrorist out of the country are also grounds for deportation .  incredibly , we have legal justification to prevent an individual from entering the country if they have known terrorist ties , however , under current u.s. law once they set foot inside the border we can not deport them .  this hinders our ability to protect americans from foreign terrorists who have infiltrated the united states .  i think all americans -- and those of us on both sides of the aisle -- can agree that the 9/11 commission identified a number of improvements that will help upgrade our intelligence and enhance america 's security .  this bill provides common sense provisions to help prevent another 9/11-type attack by protecting our borders and disrupting terrorist travel in the united states .  i urge members to vote in favor of the real id act .  mr. chairman , i rise in support of h.r. 1268 , the emergency supplemental and wartime appropriations act of 2005 .  this supplemental provides necessary funding for a variety of military operations and for equipment that will keep our troops safe while they fight the war on terror .  we are asking the brave men and women of our armed forces to put their lives on the line in defense of our freedom .  in return , we should not hesitate to give them the best protective gear that we can provide .  however , i have serious concerns about providing additional non-defense and nonemergency items , such as money for facility construction and international peacekeeping efforts that are included in this supplemental .  i believe that while these items may be vital to our nation 's interests , they are not true emergencies .  i commend the chairman of the appropriations committee , the distinguished gentleman from california , mr. lewis , for his efforts to limit the amount of non-defense and nonemergency funding in this bill .  but , far too often the federal government deems additional spending an `` emergency '' because it was not included in the original budget request .  any non-defense and non-emergency funding should be considered in the regular budget process .  as members of congress , we owe it to the american taxpayer to ensure any new request for emergency spending is thoroughly reviewed and considered in a fair manner on the house floor , especially when essential funding for our nation 's armed forces is at stake .  despite my displeasure in allowing some of these additional items to be included in the supplemental , i support this legislation because congress has a moral obligation to provide our troops with the safest equipment and most up to date training available .  mr. chairman , i rise in support of h.r. 418 .  twenty-six years ago , when i first came to this chamber , we were speaking about border security .  sixteen years ago , when i left this chamber , we were speaking about border security ; and here we are again .  a fundamental aspect of national sovereignty is that a nation is able to control its own borders .  the nature of this requirement is of particular importance in the post-9/11 environment in which we must all live .  in years past , when those of us on the subcommittee on immigration confronted this challenge , there were traffickers and human cargo and narcotics and the increasing problem of criminal gangs who profit from such enterprises .  today , however , we must deal with the additional worry that these channels of illicit commerce may also include those who enter our country to kill innocent americans and the related concerns of weapons of mass destruction .  the real id act , introduced by the gentleman from wisconsin ( chairman sensenbrenner ) , is an important step in meeting this challenge .  in conjunction with the additional border patrol positions authorized by this body at the close of the last congress , h.r. 418 will remove the impediments to completing the fence along the san diego corridor of our southern border .  i want to commend my predecessor in the third congressional district in california , mr. doug ose , who worked hard to remove the regulatory obstacles to completion of the fence .  in today 's post-9/11 environment , it is one component in an integrated u.s. border security system .  there is simply no excuse for the failure to complete the remaining 3 1/2 miles of the security fence .  the language offered by our colleague from wisconsin would allow us to do so .  in our system of governance , the united states government and specifically the congress have given us what is tantamount to plenary jurisdiction over immigration law .  as a former attorney general in my state , i can make the observation that in most areas of the law enforcement , the states and local governments have primary jurisdiction .  that is not the case with immigration enforcement .  as a former president of the other party put it in a different context , `` the buck stops here. '' although i am a committed believer in federalism , the nature of the task and the language of article i , section 8 , are clear .  while this bill in no way preempts state law with respect to the issuance of driver 's licenses , it does entail a modest notion that the immigration laws enacted by this body ought to mean something .  mr. chairman , i rise today to voice my strong support for the real id act , particularly its provisions calling for stronger standards for obtaining driver 's licenses .  page 47 of the 9/11 commission report , `` without freedom of movement , terrorists can not plan , conduct surveillance , hold meetings , train for their mission or execute an attack. '' others have argued that the proposal involves an unprecedented preemption of state authority regarding the issuance and production of driver 's licenses .  this is untrue .  let me be clear : we are not preempting state authority in this area .  what we are doing is establishing minimum standards for federal acceptance of such documents .  this is consistent with actions taken by individual states .  today , nevada and new mexico do not accept as proof of identity a state-issued driver 's license or identification card from states that do not meet their standards .  the federalism issue is one of extreme importance , and that is exactly why the language has been crafted as it has .  driver 's licenses have become the primary form of identification in the united states .  they permit people to apply for other forms of identification , transfer funds to bank accounts , obtain access to federal buildings , purchase firearms and board airplanes .  the majority of the states have recognized the privilege that a license brings and have set high standards for obtaining them .  however , 10 states , including my state of north carolina , issue valid driver 's licenses and identification cards without requiring proof of legal status .  that is scary .  according to the 9/11 commission report , these travel documents are just as important as weapons are to terrorists .  the real id act would require that federal agencies accept only driver 's licenses and state-issued identification cards from states that prove the legal status of applicants .  the bill would also require states to review the legality of existing license holders upon renewal or replacement .  the bill does not seek to set state policy for who may or who may not drive a car .  it aims to set rigorous standards for what may be used as a form of id to a federal official .  as i have stated before , i am a strong advocate of states ' rights .  however , if certain states act irresponsibly and place the national security of the rest of the country at risk , then congress must get involved .  we must do what it takes to make america safe .  i thank the gentleman from texas ( mr. sessions )  for yielding me this time .  mr. speaker , i do rise to address support for the rule and the underlying legislation and , specifically , a few of the allegations that have been made about this legislation .  first of all , there has been an allegation made that this violates states ' rights .  many of us are firm believers and supporters of states ' rights , and the fact is , the states have the right to give a driver 's license to whomever they wish .  that is their state 's right .  however , this legislation says , if you are going to use that identification card to get on transportation that is in interstate commerce or otherwise , then it is going to have to meet certain minimum standards .  so you have the states ' rights .  however , this federal government has the obligation to protect its citizens , and it is something that should not and will not be taken lightly .  as regards another aspect , asylum , we have a situation in which a legislative body , as it has come to be , that is also known as the ninth circuit court of appeals , has enacted legislation that overcomes and overwhelms a judge 's right and ability to judge credibility as it should .  that has to be overcome by this legislative body , trumping that legislative body called the ninth circuit .  that is what we are trying to do .  i have heard friends across the aisle say that americans have journeyed freely in the past and that this goes against the very freedoms which this nation was founded on .  but the truth is , try getting on an airplane .  we do not have freedom anymore .  and the more liberties that we forgo withdrawing at the border , and restricting and making sure people who are coming in do not mean us harm , then the more liberties we are going to lose in this country .  so it is important that we make sure we have that water metaphorically flowing into this lake to give it life , but it is even more important that we restrict those who would harm us from coming in , as they would .  mr. speaker , i congratulate the chairman on this bill .  it is important that we take care of business with our military .  mr. speaker , having been to iraq this year , i saw our troops , our young men and women from all branches of the service doing the finest job ever representing the concept of freedom and representing the united states ; and they certainly need the supplemental .  however , i am concerned about some of the baggage that seems to have been added to the supplemental .  and i think maybe in the future we should be careful about adding things that are not really important emergencies , such as in this supplemental conferring eligibility for rural housing assistance grants in the village of new miami , ohio ; allowing some farm service accounts for the alaska dairy farmers ; increasing the cost of the fort peck fish hatchery project in minnesota ; and adding to the national center for manufacturing services in michigan ; along with $ 500 , 000 for the oral history of negotiated settlement projects at the university of nevada .  i think these belong in some other bill .  they may be great projects , but they certainly are not emergency projects .  but i do urge all members of the house to support this legislation .  mr. chairman , i rise in support today of the real id act .  as the former chief of counterterrorism in the u.s. department of justice for the western district of texas , i had jurisdiction over the mexican-texas border .  i dealt , firsthand really , with the day-to-day threats our nation faces , and asked the question , why are we not doing more to secure our borders ?  many of those intent on doing our nation harm claim political asylum as their trojan horse to gain access to our borders .  individuals like the 1993 world trade center bomber , ramzi yousef , claimed political asylum and was ordered to appear at a hearing .  yet yousef , like a majority of those given notices , failed to show up at the hearings .  this bill will make it easier to deport suspected terrorists .  terrorists have taken advantage of other holes in our laws .  the 19 hijackers on september 11th had fraudulently obtained dozens of american visas , passports and driver 's licenses , documents used to open bank accounts , establish residency and , yes , to fly airplanes .  this border security legislation provides the safety measure that to obtain a driver 's license , the person must simply prove they have a legal right to remain in our nation .  for the safety and security of our nation , our families and our freedom , i urge my colleagues to support this bill .  the 9/11 commission recommended it .  we owe it to the victims of the national tragedy to pass this legislation .  mr. speaker , i thank the gentleman from georgia for providing some of that information .  it seems that our colleagues probably are so wrong on this bill they can not even talk about it .  they want to come down here and talk about all sorts of other things that are not involved in class action .  they are talking about protection .  well , i would like the american people to know and our colleagues to know we are talking about protection .  we are talking about protecting americans ' pockets books , because our constituents know somebody is going to pay , and if greedy lawyers are getting big settlements , they are going to be paying more at the cash register every single time they go buy something .  an entire industry has grown up over attorneys seeking cash in these class-action lawsuits .  our courts are to be designed for fairness , a forum of fairness and justice , but they have become a virtual atm for greedy lawyers when it comes to class-action lawsuits .  lawyers go file a class-action lawsuit and collect millions of dollars , just as the gentleman from georgia was saying ; and the clients , who they barely know , most times they have never even met most of these folks , those clients are receiving pennies .  mr. speaker , my colleague spoke saying this would not help the victims .  i would like people to know the class action fairness act does not restrict true victims from filing class-action lawsuits .  it will prevent attorneys from choosing which state to file in , because we know sometimes they choose where they think they can get the biggest monetary award .  we are putting the focus back on justice , back on justice in this bill .  in addition , the reform provides greater consumer protection by allowing our courts to scrutinize those settlements that provide victims with coupons while those attorneys are getting millions and millions and millions of dollars .  mr. speaker , this is an overdue reform .  we have worked tirelessly on this in the house , and i urge everyone to support it .  mr. speaker , the vote in this house we will take within the hour will leave only one more step , the president 's signature , in this first major attack on lawsuit abuse .  i oppose the substitute and support the bill .  i want to express my appreciation to the gentleman from wisconsin ( mr. sensenbrenner )  and his committee and all the members , in fact , who have been willing to take on this tough fight , but particularly to the chairman for working hard to find a way to get this bill on the floor and to the president this early in this congress .  frivolous lawsuits are clogging america 's judicial system , endangering america 's small businesses , jeopardizing jobs , and driving up prices for consumers .  the bill we are debating today will reduce these junk lawsuits through tougher sanctions and increased commonsense protections .  the past few years have witnessed an explosion of interstate class actions being filed in state courts , particularly in certain magnet jurisdictions .  these magnet courts are filled with class action abuses .  they routinely approve settlements in which the lawyers receive large fees and the class members receive virtually nothing .  the class action fairness act is a commonsense bipartisan plan that addresses this serious problem by allowing larger interstate class action cases , cases that truly do involve multiple states , to be filed in federal court .  in addition to unclogging certain overused courts , this bill ends the harassment of local businesses through forum shopping .  lawyers who now manipulate this system often do anything to stay out of federal court .  they sometimes name a local pharmacy or a local convenience store in a nationwide product liability suit simply because they believe that court , and that court often has created a reputation as the place to go to get unjust settlements .  sometimes they wait and amend their complaint and add millions of dollars of claims after the deadline for removal to federal court .  this bill stops this unfair practice as well .  this bill also establishes a much-needed class action rights bill .  several provisions are specifically designed to ensure that class members , not their attorneys , are the primary beneficiaries of the class action process .  six years ago on this floor we really began the process of attacking this system .  the stories go on and on and on , to the point that by the time we passed legislation like this in the last congress for the third congress straight , members were eager to just simply get a couple of minutes to talk about one of the classes where the people in the class get a dollar-off coupon , the people in the class get the smallest possible box of cheerios , the people in the class get a 31-cent check , or the people in the class even wind up having to pay the lawyers of the class additional money because there really was no money for the people in the class that was being determined .  this bill requires that judges carefully review settlements and limits attorneys fees when the value of the settlement received by the class members is minor in comparison or when there is a net loss settlement where the class members actually end up losing money .  this bill bans settlements that award some class members a large recovery simply because they live closer to the court that the lawyers shopped for to get that case in that judge 's court .  it allows federal courts to maximize the benefit of class action settlements by requiring that unclaimed settlement funds be donated to charitable organizations .  the class action fairness act is good for small business and good for consumers .  i urge a `` no '' vote on the substitute .  i urge my colleagues to support this important legislation .  mr. speaker , i thank the chairman and his committee for their hard work on this effort .  mr. speaker , to understand the need for s. 5 , we need to understand the game the class action lawyers play here and how they go about abusing the court systems .  i call it class action monopoly .  here is how it works .  they start at go .  the first thing they do is come up with an idea for a lawsuit .  and then they find a named plaintiff .  it does not have to be someone who is actually injured in the process .  all the lawyer really needs is an idea for a lawsuit and potential defendants who have deep pockets .  next they find a person who is the named plaintiff .  that named plaintiff is a citizen of the same state as one of the defendants and that puts them in the state court , which is where they want to be .  sometimes they have to promise to pay off that named plaintiff at this point , but that is all part of the game .  next the lawyers level their allegations , both in court and in the media .  remember , they do not have to have proof for their allegations .  they just need a forum in which to make the allegations .  now the real fun begins after you have made the allegations .  they are in state court with the named plaintiffs and their allegations , and it is time to get out of rule 23 free .  rule 23 is the rule that would apply in federal courts that defines when a class action can be certified consistent with fundamental fairness and due process considerations .  but in this game , there is no fairness .  there is no due process .  so they easily convince their magnet state to certify that they have a class and at the same time they file copycat lawsuits in state courts all over the country .  these are the same class actions asserting the same claims on behalf of the same people .  these copycat lawsuits clog the state courts .  at this point in the game , the lawyers start making the money .  let us see where the money goes .  in the columbia house record case , the lawyers took home $ 5 million and the plaintiffs got a coupon for discounts on future purchases of records .  in the blockbuster case , the lawyers walked away with $ 9.25 million , and the plaintiffs again got a coupon for $ 1 off their next video rental , coupons that the defendant probably would have issued anyway .  in the bank of boston case , the lawyers settled the case and took home $ 8.5 million .  and the customers had money deducted from their mortgage accounts to pay off the lawyers .  so in the end , a state court approved these cases , and all of the consumers in the lawsuit lost money .  people may be wondering what happens to them in this game .  we already know that if one is a consumer , in the consumer class , they will be lucky if they get a dollar-off coupon .  if the business one works for gets sued in one of the class actions , their employer is going to take a major hit and maybe even lay them off .  it is that clear in some of these cases , the basic result is that the lawyers will get lots of money , but consumers will pay because health care and car insurance premiums will go through the roof .  and when the game comes to an end , they are left with no money and the lawyers are at `` go '' and they get to start the process all over again .  it is fundamentally important that we resolve this problem and help america move forward .  i urge support of s. 5 .  mr. speaker , i rise in support of the class action fairness act because we can not act fast enough .  we have been trying to act to address the dire needs of our nation 's judicial system .  today , predatory lawyers take advantage of class action law by shopping for venues where they can find sympathetic judges and juries .  each time a lawyer goes venue shopping , it costs taxpayers and it costs our economy by bogging down job creators with frivolous and excessive litigation .  national review magazine has called my home state of west virginia one of the worst states because of its cruel legal climate .  data and statistics indicate that since 1978 , legal costs in west virginia have risen more than 10 times faster than the state economy as a whole .  as a result , our economy has not grown as fast as the rest of the nation , and the jobs that west virginians seek to support their families are not as readily available as they are in other parts of our country .  west virginia 's civil justice system has been ranked as one of the worst when it comes to the treatment of class actions .  as a result of west virginia 's relaxation and less vigorous application of procedural rules , courts are generally viewed by lawyers as more favorable and advantageous to plaintiffs , and accordingly west virginia has become a magnet of mass tort litigation .  what is very alarming is when a victim receives little or no compensation .  the class action fairness act aims to curb class settlements that provide significant fees to a lawyer with marginal benefits to victims .  the class action fairness act takes strong steps to ensure injured consumers recoup real awards from victorious verdicts , rather than settlements that involve coupons , which largely benefit the lawyers .  the class action fairness act creates important reforms that will reduce lawsuit abuse and protect individuals .  it is as simple as that .  i urge support for this legislation , and for the fair and balanced rule before us .  mr. speaker , by direction of the committee on rules , i call up house resolution 96 and ask for its immediate consideration .  mr. speaker , i yield myself such time as i may consume .  mr. speaker , in response to some of the comments that were made by the gentleman from massachusetts , i want to share with my colleagues some facts .  the class action fairness act contains several provisions specifically designed to ensure that class members , not their attorneys , class members , not their attorneys , are the primary beneficiaries of the class-action process .  for example , the act , number one , requires that judges carefully review all coupon settlements and limit attorney 's fees paid in such settlements to the value actually received by the class members .  second , it requires careful scrutiny of `` net loss '' settlements in which the class members end up losing money .  thirdly , it bans settlements that award some class members a larger recovery just because they live closer to the court .  lastly , it allows federal courts to maximize the benefits of class-action settlements by requiring that unclaimed coupons or settlement funds be donated to charitable organizations .  in addition , the bill would require that notice of proposed settlements be provided to appropriate state and federal officials , such as state attorneys general .  let me also address one other issue raised , and i think this is very important .  this myth is being circulated that the class action fairness act would move all or virtually all class actions to federal courts , overwhelming federal judges and denying state courts the ability to resolve local disputes .  well , a recent study examined class actions in the state courts of connecticut , delaware , maine , massachusetts , new york and rhode island , to determine what effect the bill would have on the class actions filed in those respective states .  here is what they found in regard to the state of massachusetts .  sixty-one percent , 30 out of 49 of the reported class actions , would have presumedly remained in state court .  at least 10 of the 19 massachusetts cases that would be affected by this bill , the class action fairness act , involved nationwide classes , cases primarily involving citizens living in other states .  mr. speaker , i yield myself such time as i may consume .  in response to the gentlewoman from texas , the committee on rules has jurisdiction , and anybody that knows the history of this body knows and understands that the committee on rules certainly has jurisdiction .  let me just give a little history for my colleagues and particularly for the gentlewoman from texas in regard to this bill .  again , in the 105th congress , senate bill 2083 , the class action fairness act , senate held hearing , reported by subcommittee .  house resolution 3789 , class action jurisdiction act of 1998 , committee hearing and markup held , reported from the house committee on the judiciary , 17 to 12 .  mr. speaker , in the 106th congress , h.r. 1875 , interstate class action jurisdiction act of 1999 .  committee hearing and markup held , passed floor 222 to 207 .  in the 107th congress , h.r. 2341 , class action fairness act of 2001 .  committee hearing and markup held ; passed floor , 233 to 190 .  in the 108th congress , h.r. 1115 , class action fairness act of 2003 , committee hearing and markup held , passed floor , 253 to 170 .  no hearings ?  indeed .  mr. speaker , how much time do i have remaining ?  mr. speaker , i yield myself such time as i may consume .  mr. speaker , the gentleman from massachusetts ( mr. mcgovern )  presented that case ; and i want to present the real crux of this problem , and let me read a suit , shields , et al v. bridgestone/firestone , incorporated in texas , a suit in texas .  this suit involves customers who had firestone tires that were among those that the national highway traffic safety administration investigated or recalled but who did not suffer any personal injury or property damage .  after a federal appeals court rejected class certification , plaintiffs ' counsel and firestone negotiated a settlement which has now been approved by a texas state court .  under the settlement , the company has agreed to redesign certain tires , a move that was already underway irrespective of the suit , and to develop a 3-year consumer education and awareness campaign , but the members of the class received nothing .  the lawyers , they got $ 19 million .  madam speaker , i thank the chairman very much for yielding .  madam speaker , the general principles behind s. 5 and many of the provisions in the legislation are similar to those in h.r. 1115 , which the house passed in 2003 , and s. 274 , which was voted out of committee in the senate in 2003 but did not ultimately pass .  to the extent these provisions are the same , the house committee on the judiciary 's report on h.r. 1115 and the senate committee on the judiciary 's report on s. 274 reflect the intent and understanding of the committee and the sponsors as to the import of these provisions .  however , there are several new provisions in s. 5 regarding federal jurisdiction over class actions that were not included in prior versions of the legislation .  i would like to ask my colleague , the chairman of the committee on the judiciary , to provide an overview of the jurisdictional provisions in the legislation , and i would like to discuss the various exceptions included in the legislation and the intent of the sponsors with regard to these exceptions .  madam speaker , i would also like to discuss the home state exception in the legislation .  new subsections 1332 ( d ) ( 3 ) and ( d ) ( 4 ) ( b ) address the jurisdictional principles that will apply to class actions filed against the defendant in its home state , dividing such cases into three categories .  first , for cases in which two-thirds or more of the members of the plaintiff class and the primary defendants are citizens of the state in which the suit was filed , section 1332 ( d ) ( 4 ) ( b ) states that federal jurisdiction will not be extended by s. 5 .  such cases will remain in state courts .  second , cases in which more than two-thirds of the members of the plaintiff class are not citizens of the state in which the action was filed will be subject to federal jurisdiction .  federal courts should be able to hear such lawsuits because they have a predominantly interstate component .  they affect people in many jurisdictions , and the laws of many states will be at issue .  finally , there is a middle category of class actions in which more than one-third , but fewer than two-thirds , of the members of the plaintiff class and the primary defendants are all citizens of the state in which the action was filed .  in such cases , the numbers alone may not always confirm that the litigation is more fairly characterized as predominantly interstate in character .  new subsection 1332 ( d ) ( 3 ) , therefore , gives federal courts discretion in the interests of justice to decline to exercise jurisdiction over such cases based on the consideration of five factors .  madam speaker , i would ask the chairman to explain these factors .  i thank the chairman for yielding to me .  i think those examples really reflect the intent of the legislation .  madam speaker , the legislation also includes a local controversy exception which is intended to ensure that truly local class actions can remain in state court under the legislation .  under this provision , federal courts are instructed not to exercise jurisdiction over cases that meet all of the following four criteria : first , more than two-thirds of the class members must be the citizens of the state where the suit is brought ; second , there must be at least one in-state defendant from whom significant relief is sought by members of the class and whose conduct forms a significant basis of plaintiffs ' claims ; third , the principal injuries resulting from the alleged conduct or related conduct of each defendant must have occurred in the state where the action was originally filed ; and , fourth , no other class action has been filed during the preceding 3 years asserting the same or similar factual allegations against any of the defendants .  madam speaker , i would ask that the chairman elaborate on these criteria .  i thank the chairman for yielding once again .  madam speaker , in this regard i think it is important to note that the exceptions in this legislation are just that , exceptions , and they should not be interpreted in ways that turn them into loopholes .  for example , the legislation excludes actions against states .  obviously , this does not mean that plaintiffs can simply name a state in every consumer class action and stay out of federal court .  to the contrary , federal courts should proceed cautiously before declining federal jurisdiction under the subsection 1332 ( d ) ( 5 ) ( a ) `` state action '' case exception , and do so only when it is clear that the primary defendants are indeed states , state officials , or other governmental entities against whom the court may be foreclosed from ordering relief .  the sponsors intend that primary defendants be intended to reach those defendants who are the real targets of the lawsuit , i.e .  the defendants who would be expected to incur most of the loss if liability is found .  thus , the term `` primary defendant '' should include any person who has substantial exposure to significant portions of the proposed class in the action , particularly any defendant that is allegedly liable to the vast majority of the members of the proposed classes , as opposed to simply a few individual class members .  it is the sponsors ' intention with regard to each of these exceptions that the party opposing federal jurisdiction shall have the burden of demonstrating the applicability of an exemption .  thus , if a plaintiff seeks to have a class action remanded on the ground that the primary defendants and two-thirds or more of the class members are citizens of the home state , that plaintiff has the burden of demonstrating that these criteria are met .  similarly , if a plaintiff seeks to have a purported class action remanded because a primary defendant is a state , that plaintiff should have the burden of demonstrating that the exception should apply .  i thank the gentleman for yielding .  finally , mr. speaker , some critics have complained that the legislation removal provisions will result in delay .  can the gentleman explain why that is simply not the case ?  mr. speaker , i thank the gentleman for his leadership in moving this legislation forward and in working with the senate to accomplish that as well .  i hope this colloquy will provide guidance on the very important jurisdictional provisions in s. 5 and the sponsor 's intent .  mr. speaker , i thank the chairman for yielding me time and for his leadership in bringing this legislation to the floor and for working with the senate to achieve the compromise that we need .  the gentlewoman from california ( ms. pelosi )  , the minority leader , called this an extreme republican measure .  apparently , she has not spoken to her own fellow san franciscan and senior senator from her state , dianne feinstein , who negotiated the compromise that has brought this legislation to the floor of the house , or to senator chuck schumer , also a member of the committee on the judiciary on the democratic side in the senate , or 16 other democratic senators who voted for this legislation .  she also apparently has not spoken to members of her own democratic caucus , many of whom have voted for this legislation in each of the last three congresses that have passed the house of representatives and many more of whom will vote for the legislation today .  a number of the folks who have spoken on the other side of the aisle criticizing the legislation have cited total inaccuracies about what the legislation will do .  the gentleman from massachusetts ( mr. markey )  would not yield to me , but he said that the amerada hess case in new hampshire , with gasoline leaking into groundwater , would not be heard in the state court ; but if you live in new hampshire and you have gasoline leaking in your groundwater and virtually all of the plaintiffs are new hampshire residents , the case , under this bill , would be heard in the state courts .  some have mentioned the vioxx case against merck would be affected by this , and they have argued that senate 5 should be rejected because it will hurt consumers bringing vioxx cases against merck .  the truth , however , is that this legislation will have absolutely no effect on vioxx suits .  here is why : the majority of personal injury cases brought against merck are individual cases that would not be affected by the bill in any manner whatsoever .  these include more than 400 personal injury cases that are part of a coordinated proceeding in new jersey state court .  none of these cases will be affected by the bill because they are neither class actions nor mass actions .  now , what kind of cases would be affected by this legislation ?  well , let me show my colleagues how a select number of class action trial lawyers play the class action wheel of fortune .  how about the kay bee toys case where the lawyers got $ 1 million in attorneys fees and the consumers got 30 percent off selected products of an advertised sale at kay bee toys for one week .  or the poland spring water case where the lawyers got $ 1.35 million in the wheel of fortune and the consumers got coupons to buy more of the water that the lawyers were alleging was defective .  how about the ameritech case .  the price goes up , $ 16 million for those lawyers ; the consumers , $ 5 phone cards .  how about the premier cruise line case .  the lawyers got nearly $ 900 , 000 .  the consumers got $ 30 to $ 40 off of their next thousand dollar cruise , with a coupon to buy more of the product the lawyers were alleging was defective .  or the computer monitor litigation , $ 6 million in attorneys fees in a case alleging that the size of the computer screen was slightly off , and therefore , they were entitled to something .  what did the consumers get ?  a $ 13 rebate to purchase their next purchase .  how about the register.com case , $ 642 , 500 to the lawyers .  the consumers , $ 5-off coupons .  my favorite case , the case against chase manhattan bank , the lawyers got $ 4 million in attorneys fees , but the plaintiffs that allegedly the opponents of this bill are protecting , they got 33 cents .  here is one of the actual checks .  the catch was that at the time , to accept this 33-cent magnanimous check , they had to use a 34-cent postage stamp to send in the acceptance to get their 33-cent fee .  how about the case that president bush cited last week when he highlighted problems with this of the woman who had a defective television set against thompson electronics , found she had been made a member of a class action seeking redress of her grievances and many others against thompson electronics .  what did the lawyers get ?  $ 22 million in attorneys fees .  what did she get ?  a coupon for $ 25 to $ 50 off her next purchase of exactly what she did not want , another thompson electronics television set .  now , the gentlewoman from california , the minority leader , also cited the washington post .  let me tell my colleagues , the washington post has repeatedly endorsed this legislation , along with over a hundred other major newspapers , the washington post , the wall street journal , the financial times , christian science monitor , on and on the list goes .  and here is what the washington post said , and that is why we need to pass this legislation today .  the clients get token payments while the lawyers get enormous fees .  this is not justice .  it is an extortion racket that only congress can fix .  i urge my colleagues to pass the bill .  mr. speaker , i thank the gentleman from wisconsin for yielding me this time , and i thank the gentleman from new york ( mr. weiner )  for raising the points on those cases on the class action wheel of fortune because he makes a good point .  in not one of those cases was there any wrongdoing found on the part of any of those defendants because all of those were settlements .  they were extortionate settlements because they are in the jurisdiction of a court where they know they are facing a hanging judge and a hanging jury .  the gentleman also raised another good point , and we should not leave plaintiffs in the situation where they get a 33-cent check or a coupon for a box of cheerios , like in another case , and that is what this bill does .  it requires extra-special scrutiny for coupon settlement cases so the courts will no longer let the manufacturers ' attorneys and the defendants ' attorneys come in with a settlement that simply gets out of the case , that gives the plaintiffs ' attorney a huge sum of money and everyone else walks away and the plaintiffs get left holding the bag .  mr. speaker , the gentleman ought to talk to his colleague , the senior senator from new york , the predecessor of his seat , who supported this legislation .  in addition , when the gentleman talks about abuse of plaintiffs in these cases , take into consideration the nationwide class action lawsuit filed in alabama against the bank of boston , headquartered in massachusetts , over mortgage escrow accounts .  the class members won the case but actually lost money .  amazing .  under the settlement agreement , the 700 , 000 class members received small payments of just a couple of dollars or no money at all .  about a year later , they found out that anywhere from $ 90 to $ 140 had been deducted from their escrow accounts .  for what ?  to pay their lawyers ' legal fees , of what ?  $ 8.5 million .  and when some of those class members , some of those beleaguered plaintiffs , that i am glad the gentleman from new york is standing up for , sued their class action lawyers for malpractice , the lawyers countersued them for $ 25 million saying that their former clients were trying to harass them .  this is an extortionate practice .  a small cartel of class action lawyers around the country are abusing the system and we need to change it .  mr. speaker , i rise in opposition to the motion to commit .  mr. speaker , first let me thank chairman sensenbrenner for his leadership in bringing us to this historic point .  he and i have been working on this for over 6 years .  it has passed the house of representatives three times before .  due to his good work , it has now passed the senate and we have the opportunity to send it to the president .  he is waiting to sign it and we should n't waste any more time .  now the truth about class action fairness and vioxx .  critics have been arguing in the press that s. 5 should be rejected because it will hurt consumers bringing vioxx cases against merck .  the truth is , however , that this legislation will have absolutely no effect on vioxx suits , and here is why .  the majority of personal injury cases brought against merck are individual cases that would not be affected by the bill in any manner whatsoever .  these include more than 400 personal injury cases that are part of a coordinated proceeding in new jersey state court .  none of these cases will be affected by the bill because they are neither class actions nor mass actions .  merck has been named in more than 75 statewide and nationwide class actions involving vioxx , but only a small percentage are personal injury class actions .  to the extent these cases do involve personal injury , most were already brought in or removed to federal court because each potential class member 's claims exceeds $ 75 , 000 .  thus , these cases are removable to federal court under the old rules .  there are a few cases which plaintiffs have joined together in mass action-type cases against merck .  however , not a single vioxx case has been brought against merck in state court by more than 100 plaintiffs , one of the requirements for removal to federal court under the class action legislation .  thus , there is no reason to believe that the mass action provision would affect any vioxx-related cases whatsoever .  most of the class actions have been brought against merck .  since the legislation is not retroactive , it would absolutely have no effect on the 75 class actions already filed against merck in the wake of the vioxx withdrawal .  mr. speaker , given the large number of suits already filed and the fact that every former vioxx taker in america is already a proposed class member in numerous class actions , it is unlikely there will be many more class actions after the legislation is enacted .  it is bad legislation to have something pass that covers all class actions in the country for all time and name one specific product or one specific company in the legislation .  it is irrelevant anyway .  now , let me tell you the kinds of cases that are affected by this legislation .  take a look at the `` class action wheel of fortune '' on this chart .  it will tell you what we are doing here today .  you have got the case against ameritech .  ameritech , the attorneys for the plaintiffs got $ 16 million in attorneys fees .  what did the plaintiffs they represent get ?  five-dollar phone cards .  the premier cruise line case , the lawyers got almost $ 1 million ; the consumers got a $ 30- to $ 40-off coupon for their next cruise .  the computer monitor litigation case , the lawyers , $ 6 million in fees ; the consumers , a $ 13 rebate against your next future purchase of the alleged defective product .  register.com , $ 650 , 000 for the lawyers ; $ 5 for the consumers .  kb toys , $ 1 million for the lawyers ; 30 percent off your selected product in a unadvertised 1-week sale at kb toys .  poland spring water , $ 1.35 million for the lawyers ; a coupon for more of the allegedly defective water for the consumers .  my favorite case , however , is this one , the chase manhattan bank case , where the lawyers got $ 4 million in attorneys fees ; the plaintiffs , a check , we have got one right here , for 33 cents .  but there was a catch , because if you wanted to accept the 33 cents , you had to use a 34-cent postage stamp to send in your acceptance notice .  how is that for a bargain for you ?  and how about the $ 22 million case that president bush cited last week against thompson electronics ?  the lawyers got $ 22 million in attorneys fees ; the plaintiffs , one of whom was there , got a $ 25- to $ 50-off coupon to buy more of what ?  the very television set that she was complaining was defective in the first place .  it is a racket , it is extortionate .  the people of the country know it .  when they are asked the question , who benefits from our class action industry today , 47 percent say it is the plaintiffs ' lawyers ; 20 percent say it is the lawyers for the companies ; 67 percent of our public recognizes it is the lawyers who benefit from this system .  it is time we change it .  this bill does just that .  it protects american consumers and makes sure that they get justice by examining these ridiculous coupon settlements .  mr. speaker , i urge my colleagues to support this legislation , defeat the motion to commit , and send the bill to the president , and starting very soon , we will have justice for american consumers .  mr. speaker , i would like to thank the gentleman for the opportunity to speak on this bill today .  he has been leading a very important discussion and one that i am very pleased has finally come to fruition .  mr. speaker , there has been a lot of discussion today about class actions and what they do to the economy ; class actions , what they have done to law , because state courts are making national law .  but i think the most important point about a class action is that a class action 's purpose is to award the plaintiffs who have been injured .  the intent of these suits is to allow large groups who were similarly harmed by something to recover damages .  unfortunately , it is the attorneys who have been recovering more money .  the injured plaintiffs in many cases are recovering basically nothing .  first , they are denied real relief , and then the attorneys pocket huge amounts of money .  examples , bank of boston case , the lawyers got 8.5 million .  the plaintiffs actually lost money .  in the blockbuster case , the lawyers , 9.25 million .  the plaintiffs got $ 1 off their next movie .  the coca-cola case , the lawyers got 1.5 million ; the plaintiffs , a 50-cent coupon .  obviously , these lawsuits are not helping their intended beneficiaries .  this act will create a consumer class action bill of rights .  it will protect consumers from the egregious abuses of the class action practice today .  the plan will require the judges carefully review the settlement and limit the attorneys fees when the value of the settlement received by those class members is minor in comparison or when there is a net loss in the settlement , such as this example where the class members could end up losing money .  it also will ban settlements that award some class members a large recovery because they live closer to the court .  it will also allow federal courts to maximize the benefit of class action settlements by requiring that unclaimed settlement funds be donated to charitable organizations .  mr. speaker , it is just obvious to me that this is a long-overdue bill .  i encourage my colleagues to support it .  i encourage my colleagues to ensure that the plaintiffs actually receive their due in these cases .  mr. speaker , i 'm pleased join my colleagues here today who support taking a historic first step to breaking one of the main shackles holding back our economy and america 's workforce -- lawsuit abuse .  for the last decade , the republican congress has worked to end out of control lawsuits .  today is the day we will pass common-sense legislation and put an end to class action lawsuit abuse .  i particularly want to praise the efforts of house judiciary chairman jim sensenbrenner for his relentless work .  without his stewardship , i do n't think th achievement would have become a reality .  i come from illinois -- the land of lincoln -- where downstate madison county has the dubious distinction as a personal injury lawyer 's paradise .  no , there are not palm trees or sandy beaches there .  instead , madison county , illinois , is home to very warm courtrooms where frivolous lawsuits are filed virtually everyday .  why 's madison county ?  the answer : `` venue shopping. '' cagey trial lawyers have figured out there 's a pretty good likelihood their case -- no matter what its merit -- will literally get its day in court because of favorable judges .  to use a sports analogy , thanks to willing judges , personal injury lawyers get to play on their `` home court '' each and every time they file a frivolous lawsuit there .  for instance , a legendary class action case from madison county illustrates what 's wrong with the current legal system .  in 2000 , cable tv customers who filed suit over their cable operator 's late fee policy won their case , but received nothing ... ..  not a dime , not a nickel , not a lincoln penny .  instead , their $ 5.6 million settlement went directly into the pockets of their attorneys .  how is that justice ?  how does that help victims ?  the american people deserve better .  our working families demand better .  today 's action takes a step in the right direction to end the so-called tort tax .  the tort tax makes consumers pay more for the goods and services they use .  the tort tax adds to the cost of everything we buy because businesses and manufacturers have to cover themselves and their employees -- just in case they get sued by a greedy personal injury lawyer .  at last estimate , this outrageous tort tax cost the nation 's economy $ 246 billion a year , and by 2006 , it will cost the average american nearly $ 1 , 000 more each year on their purchases because of defensive business practices .  in closing , as a matter of principle , damage awards should go to the victim , not the lawyers .  lawsuits should not be `` strike it rich '' schemes for lawyers .  there has to be some limit to what lawyers can take from their clients .  otherwise , cagey attorneys end up with the lion 's share of the settlement and the victims end up with little more than scraps .  mr. speaker , i thank the gentleman from georgia for yielding me this time .  mr. speaker , i rise today in strong support of both the rule and the underlying class-action reform legislation .  mr. speaker , the bottom line is that class-action reform is badly needed .  currently , certain crafty lawyers are able to game the system by filing large , nationwide class-action suits in certain preferred state courts such as madison county , illinois , where judges are quick to certify classes and quick to approve settlements that give millions of dollars to attorneys and only worthless coupons to their clients .  looking at this chart , for example , we can see the history of madison county , illinois , which has been called the number one judicial hellhole in the united states .  there were 77 class-action filings in 2002 , and 106 class-action lawsuits filed in 2003 .  now , the movie bridges of madison county was a love story .  `` the judges of madison county '' would be a horror flick .  unfortunately , all too often , it is the lawyers who drive these class-action suits and not the individuals who allegedly have been injured .  for example , in a suit against blockbuster over late fees , the attorneys received $ 9.25 million ; their clients got a $ 1 off coupon for their next video rental .  similarly , in a lawsuit against the company that makes cheerios , the attorneys received $ 2 million for themselves , while their clients received a coupon for a free box of cheerios .  in a nutshell , these out-of-control class-action lawsuits are killing jobs , they are hurting small business people who can not afford to defend themselves , and they are hurting consumers who have to pay a higher price for goods and services .  fortunately , this legislation provides much-needed reform in 2 key areas .  first , it eliminates much of the forum shopping by requiring that most of the nationwide class-action suits be filed in federal court .  second , it cracks down on these coupon-based class-action settlements by requiring that attorney fee awards be based on either the value of the coupons actually redeemed , or by the hours actually billed by the attorney prosecuting the case .  mr. speaker , this legislation will and should comfortably pass the house of representatives .  last week , this exact bill received 72 votes in the u.s. senate , and last year we passed a similar bill with 253 votes .  i urge my colleagues to vote yes on the bill and vote yes on the rule .  mr. speaker , i thank the gentleman for yielding me this time .  mr. speaker , the bottom line is that class action reform is badly needed .  currently , crafty lawyers are able to game the system by filing large , nationwide class action suits in certain preferred state courts such as madison county , illinois , where judges are quick to certify classes and quick to approve settlements that give the lawyers millions of dollars in fees and give the clients worthless coupons .  let us take a look at madison county , illinois with this chart .  madison county , illinois has been called the number one judicial hellhole in the united states .  in 2002 we can see there were 77 class action filings , and in 2003 there were 106 class action lawsuits filed .  the movie `` bridges of madison county '' was a love story .  the `` judges of madison county '' would be a horror flick .  unfortunately , all too often it is the lawyer who drives these cases and not the individuals who are supposedly hurt .  for example , in a suit against blockbuster over late fees , the attorneys received for themselves $ 9.25 million , while their clients got a $ 1-off discount coupon .  similarly , in a lawsuit against the company who makes cheerios , the lawyers received $ 2 million for themselves ; predictably their clients received a coupon for a box of cheerios .  in a nutshell , these out-of-control class action lawsuits are killing jobs , they are hurting small business people who can not afford to defend themselves , they are hurting consumers who end up paying higher prices for goods and services .  this legislation provides much-needed reform in two key areas .  first , it eliminates much of the forum shopping by requiring most of these nationwide class action suits to be filed in federal court .  and , second , it cracks down on these coupon-based class action settlements by requiring fee awards to be based on the number of coupons actually redeemed or the number of hours actually billed .  mr. speaker , i urge my colleagues to vote `` yes '' on this class action reform legislation .  it is about common sense , it is about justice , and it is about time .  madam speaker , pursuant to house resolution 96 , i call up the senate bill ( s. 5 ) to amend the procedures that apply to consideration of interstate class actions to assure fairer outcomes for class members and defendants , and for other purposes , and ask for its immediate consideration .  madam speaker , i ask unanimous consent that all members may have 5 legislative days within which to revise and extend their remarks and include extraneous material on s. 5 .  madam speaker , i yield myself such time as i may consume .  madam speaker , i rise in strong support of s. 5 , the class action fairness act of 2005 .  today marks the culmination of nearly a decade of legislative efforts to end systematic abuse of our nation 's class action system .  we stand on the cusp of sending landmark legislation on civil-justice reform to the president that has been approved by increasing majorities each time it has been considered by the house in each of the last three congresses and which passed the other body last week with an overwhelming majority of 72 votes .  since these reforms were first proposed , the magnitude of the class action crisis , the need to address it has become more and more urgent .  the crisis now threatens the integrity of our civil justice system and undermines the economic vitality upon which job creation depends .  a major element of the worsening crisis is the exponential increase in state class action cases in a handful of `` magnet '' or `` magic '' jurisdictions , many of which deal with national issues in classes .  in the last 10 years , state court class actions filings nationwide have increased over 1 , 315 percent .  the infamous handful of magnet courts known for certifying even the most speculative class action suits , the increase in filings now exceeds 5 , 000 percent .  the only explanation for this phenomenon is aggressive forum shopping by trial lawyers to find courts and judges who will act as willing accomplices in a judicial power grab , hearing nationwide cases and setting policy for the entire country .  a second major feature of the present class action crisis is a system producing outrageous settlements that benefit only lawyers and trample the rights of class members .  class actions were originally created to efficiently address a large number of similar claims by people suffering small harms .  today they are too often used to efficiently transfer the large fees to a small number of trial lawyers , with little benefit to the plaintiffs .  the present rules encourage a race to any available state courthouse in the hopes of a rubber-stamped nationwide settlement that produces millions in attorney 's fees for the winning plaintiff 's attorney .  the race to settle produces outcomes that favor expediency and profits for lawyers over justice and fairness for consumers .  the losers in this race are the victims who often gain little or nothing through the settlement , yet are bound by it in perpetuity .  and all americans bear the cost of these settlements through increased prices for goods and services .  the bill before the house today offers commonsense procedural changes that will end the most serious abuses by allowing more interstate class actions to be heard in federal courts while keeping truly local cases in state courts .  its core provisions are similar to those passed by this body in the last three congresses .  s. 5 also implements a consumer bill of rights that will keep class members from being used by the lawyers they never hired to engage in litigation they do not know about or to extort money they will never see .  madam speaker , when the house considered this important reform in the last congress , i remarked that , `` the class action judicial system has become a joke , and no one is laughing except the trial lawyers ... ..  all the way to the bank. '' i imagine that laughter turned to nervous chuckles when s. 5 emerged unscathed from the gauntlet in the other body with 72 votes last week .  today , as the house prepares to pass this bill , i suspect you could hear a pin drop in the halls of infamous courthouses located in madison county , illinois and jefferson county , texas , where for so long the good times have rolled for forum-shopping plaintiffs ' attorneys and the judges who enable them .  and when this legislation is signed by the president one day soon , those same halls may echo with sobs and curses because this time justice and fairness and the american people will have the last laugh .  madam speaker , after years of toil , the moment has arrived .  the opportunity to restore common sense , rationality , and dignity to our class action system is now before us , and the need for reform has never been more certain .  i urge my colleagues to support the class action fairness act of 2005 .  madam speaker , i reserve the balance of my time .  madam speaker , first , i have a lengthy additional statement explaining how this bill is to work .  we do not have the time in general debate for me to give this statement on the floor , so i will insert the statement relative to the intent of the managers of the bill in the record at this point .  madam speaker , i would like to provide a brief summary of the provisions in sections 4 and 5 of s. 5 , the class action fairness act of 2005 .  section 4 gives federal courts jurisdiction over class action lawsuits in which the aggregate amount in controversy exceeds $ 5 million , and at least one plaintiff and one defendant are diverse .  overall , new section 1332 ( d ) is intended to expand substantially federal court jurisdiction over class actions .  its provisions should be read broadly , with a strong preference that interstate class actions should be heard in a federal court if removed by any defendant .  if a purported class action is removed under these jurisdictional provisions , the named plaintiff ( s ) should bear the burden of demonstrating that the removal was improper .  and if a federal court is uncertain about whether the $ 5 million threshold is satisfied , the court should err in favor of exercising jurisdiction over the case .  the sponsors intend that in a case seeking injunctive relief , a matter be subject to federal jurisdiction under this provision if the value of the matter in litigation exceeds $ 5 million either from the viewpoint of the plaintiff or the defendant , and regardless of the type of relief sought ( e.g. , damages , injunctive relief , or declaratory relief ) .  similarly , in assessing the jurisdictional amount in declaratory relief cases , the federal court should include in its assessment the value of all relief and benefits that would logically flow from granting the declaratory relief sought by the claimants .  for example , a declaration that a defendant 's conduct is unlawful or fraudulent will carry certain consequences , such as the need to cease and desist from that conduct , that will often `` cost '' the defendant in excess new subsections 1332 ( d ) ( 3 ) and ( d ) ( 4 ) ( b ) address the jurisdictional principles that will apply to class actions filed against a defendant in its home state , dividing such cases into three categories .  first , for cases in which two-thirds or more of the members of the plaintiff class and the primary defendants are citizens of the state in which the suit was filed , subsection 1332 ( d ) ( 4 ) ( b ) states that such cases will remain in state court .  second , cases in which more than two-thirds of the members of the plaintiff class or one or more of the primary defendants are not citizens of the forum state will be subject to federal jurisdiction since such cases are predominantly interstate in nature .  finally , there is a middle category of class actions in which more than one-third but fewer than two-thirds of the members of the plaintiff class and the primary defendants are all citizens first , the court should consider whether the claims asserted are of `` significant national or interstate interest. '' under this factor , if a case presents issues of national or interstate significance , that argues in favor of the matter being handled in federal court .  second , the court should consider whether the claims asserted will be governed by laws other than those of the forum state .  under this factor , if the federal court determines that multiple state laws will apply to aspects of the class action , that determination would favor having the matter heard in the federal court system , which has a record of being more respectful of the laws of the various states in the class action context .  the third factor is whether the class action has been pleaded in a manner that seeks to avoid federal jurisdiction .  the purpose of this inquiry is to determine whether the plaintiffs have proposed a `` natural '' class that encompasses all of the people and claims that one would expect to include in a class action , as opposed to proposing a class that appears to be gerrymandered solely to avoid federal jurisdiction by leaving out certain potential class members or claims .  if the federal court concludes evasive pleading is involved , that factor would favor the exercise of the fifth factor asks whether the number of citizens of the forum state in the proposed plaintiff class ( es ) is substantially larger than the number of citizens from any other state , and the citizenship of the other members of the proposed class ( es ) is dispersed among a substantial number of states .  if all of the class members who do not reside in the state where the action was filed are widely dispersed among many other states , that point would suggest that the interests of the forum state in litigating the controversy are preeminent .  however , if a court finds that the citizenship of the other class members is not widely dispersed , the opposite balance would be indicated and a federal forum would be favored .  finally , the sixth factor is whether one or more class actions asserting the same or similar claims on behalf of the same or other persons have been filed in the last three years .  the purpose of this factor is efficiency and fairness : to determine whether a matter should be subject to federal jurisdiction so that it can be coordinated with other overlapping or parallel class actions .  if other class actions on new subsection 1332 ( d ) ( 4 ) ( a ) is the `` local controversy exception. '' this subsection prohibits federal courts from exercising diversity jurisdiction over a class action under the foregoing provisions if the plaintiffs clearly demonstrate that each and every one of the following criteria are satisfied in the case at issue .  first , more than two-thirds of class members are citizens of the forum state .  second , there is at least one in-state defendant from whom significant relief is sought by members of the class and whose conduct forms a significant basis of plaintiffs ' claims .  third , the principal injuries resulting from the alleged conduct , or related conduct , of each defendant were incurred in the state where the action was originally filed .  and fourth , no other class action asserting the same or similar factual allegations against any of the defendants on behalf of the same or other persons has been filed during the preceding three years .  this provision is intended to respond to concerns that class actions with a truly local focus should not be moved to federal court under this legislation because state courts have a strong interest in adjudicating such disputes .  at the same time , this is a narrow exception that was carefully drafted to ensure that it does not become a jurisdictional loophole .  thus , in assessing whether each of these criteria is satisfied by a particular case , a federal court should bear in mind that the purpose of each of these criteria is to identify a truly local controversy -- a controversy that uniquely affects a particular locality to the exclusion of all others .  for example , under the second criterion , there must be at least one real local defendant .  by that , the sponsors intend that the local defendant must be a primary focus of the plaintiffs ' claims -- not just a peripheral defendant .  the local defendant must be a target from whom significant relief is sought by the class ( as opposed to just a subset of the class membership ) , as well as being a defendant whose alleged conduct forms a significant basis for the claims asserted by the class .  similarly , the third criterion is that the principal injuries resulting from the actions of all the defendants must have occurred in the state where the suit was filed .  by this criterion , the sponsors mean that the fourth and final criterion is that no other class action involving similar allegations has been filed against any of the defendants over the last three years on behalf of the same or other persons .  once again , the sponsors wish to stress that the inquiry under this criterion should not be whether identical ( or nearly identical ) class actions have been filed .  rather , the inquiry is whether similar factual allegations have been made against the defendant in multiple class actions , regardless of whether the same causes of actions were asserted or whether the purported plaintiff classes were the same ( or even overlapped in significant respects ) .  new subsections 1332 ( d ) ( 5 ) ( a ) and ( b ) specify that s. 5 does not extend federal diversity jurisdiction to class actions in which ( a ) the primary defendants are states , state officials , or other governmental entities against whom the district court may be foreclosed from ordering relief , or ( b ) the number of members of all proposed plaintiff classes in the aggregate is fewer than 100 class members .  the purpose of the `` state action '' cases provision is to prevent states , state officials , or other governmental entities from dodging legitimate claims by removing class actions to federal court and then arguing that the federal courts are constitutionally prohibited from granting the requested relief .  however , federal courts should proceed cautiously before declining federal jurisdiction under the `` state action '' case exception , and do so only when it is clear that the primary defendants are indeed states , state officials , or other governmental entities against whom the `` court may be foreclosed from ordering relief. '' the sponsors wish to stress that this provision should not become a subterfuge for avoiding federal jurisdiction .  in particular , plaintiffs should not be permitted to name state entities as defendants as a mechanism to avoid federal jurisdiction over class actions that largely target non-governmental defendants .  the sponsors intend that `` primary defendants '' be interpreted to reach those defendants who are the real `` targets '' of the lawsuit -- i.e. , the defendants that would be expected to incur most of the loss if liability is found .  it is the sponsors ' intention with regard to each of these exceptions that the party opposing federal jurisdiction shall have the burden of demonstrating the applicability of an exemption .  the sponsors understand that in assessing the various criteria established in all of these new jurisdictional provisions , a federal court may have to engage in some fact-finding , not unlike what is necessitated by the existing jurisdictional statutes .  the sponsors further understand that in some instances , limited discovery may be necessary to make these determinations .  however , the sponsors caution that these jurisdictional determinations should be made largely on the basis of readily available information .  allowing substantial , burdensome discovery on jurisdictional issues would be contrary to the intent of these provisions to encourage the exercise of federal jurisdiction over class actions .  under new subsection 1332 ( d ) ( 9 ) , the act excludes from its jurisdictional provisions class actions that solely involve claims that relate to matters of corporate governance arising out of state law .  the purpose of this provision is to avoid disturbing in any way the federal vs .  state court jurisdictional lines already drawn in the securities litigation class action context by the enactment of the securities litigation uniform standards act of 1998 .  the sponsors intend that this exemption be narrowly construed .  by corporate governance litigation , the sponsors mean only litigation based solely on ( a ) state statutory law regulating the organization and governance of business enterprises such as corporations , partnerships , limited partnerships , limited liability companies , new subsection 1332 ( d ) ( 11 ) expands federal jurisdiction over mass actions -- suits that are brought on behalf of numerous named plaintiffs who claim that their suits present common questions of law or fact that should be tried together even though they do not seek class certification status .  mass action cases function very much like class actions and are subject to many of the same abuses .  under subsection 1332 ( d ) ( 11 ) , any civil action in which 100 or more named parties seek to try their claims for monetary relief together will be treated as a class action for jurisdictional purposes .  the sponsors wish to stress that a complaint in which 100 or more plaintiffs are named fits the criteria of seeking to try their claims together , because there would be no other apparent reason to include all of those claimants in a single action unless the intent was to secure a joint trial of the claims asserted in the action .  the sponsors also wish to stress that this provision is when all the claims asserted in the action arise out of an event or occurrence in the state where , the suit is filed and the injuries were incurred in that state and contiguous states ( e.g. , a toxic spill case ) and ( 2 ) when the claims are asserted on behalf of the general public ( and not on behalf of individual claimants or members of a purported class ) pursuant to a state statute specifically authorizing such an action .  the first exception would apply only to a truly local single event with no substantial interstate effects .  the purpose of this exception is to allow cases involving environmental torts such as a chemical spill to remain in state court if both the event and the injuries were truly local , even though there are some out-of-state defendants .  by contrast , this exception would not apply to a product liability or insurance case .  the second exception also addresses a very narrow situation , specifically a law like the california unfair competition law , which allows individuals to bring a suit on behalf of the general public .  subsection 1332 ( d ) ( 11 ) ( b ) ( i ) includes a statement indicating that jurisdiction exists only over those plaintiffs whose claims in a mass action satisfy the jurisdictional amount requirements under section 1332 ( a ) .  it is the sponsors ' intent that although remands of individual claims not meeting the section 1332 jurisdictional amount requirement may take the action below the 100-plaintiff jurisdictional threshold or the $ 5 million jurisdictional amount requirement , those subsequent remands should not extinguish federal diversity jurisdiction over the action as long as the mass action met the various jurisdictional requirements at the time of removal .  under subsection 1332 ( d ) ( 11 ) ( c ) , a mass action removed to a federal court under this provision may not be transferred to another federal court under the mdl statute ( 28 u.s.c .  1407 ) unless a majority of the plaintiffs request such a transfer .  the sponsors wish to make clear that this restriction on mdl transfers applies only to mass actions as defined in subsection 1332 ( d ) ( 11 ) ; the legislation does not more broadly restrict the authority of the judicial panel on multidistrict litigation to transfer class actions removed to federal court under this legislation .  under subsection 1332 ( d ) ( 11 ) ( d ) , the statute of limitations for any claims that are part of a mass action will be tolled while the mass action is pending in federal court .  the removal provisions in section 5 of the legislation are self-explanatory and attempt to put an end to the type of gaming engaged in by plaintiffs ' lawyers to keep cases in state court .  they should thus be interpreted with this intent in mind .  in addition , new subsection 1453 ( c ) provides that an order remanding a class action to state court is reviewable by appeal at the discretion of the reviewing court .  the sponsors note that the current prohibition on remand order review was added to section 1447 after the federal diversity jurisdictional statutes and the related removal statutes had been subject to appellate review for many years and were the subject of considerable appellate level interpretive law .  the sponsors believe it is important thank you , madam speaker , for allowing me to provide an explanation of these jurisdictional provisions .  madam speaker , reclaiming my time , i appreciate the gentleman 's question .  section 4 of the bill gives federal courts jurisdiction over class action lawsuits in which the matter in controversy exceeds the sum or value of $ 5 million , excluding interests and costs and at least one proposed class member and one defendant are citizens of different states or countries .  for purposes of the citizenship element of this analysis , s. 5 does not alter current law .  thus , a corporation will continue to be deemed a citizen of any state by which it has been incorporated and of the state where it has its principal place of business .  however , the bill provides that for purposes of this new section , and section 1453 of title 28 , an unincorporated association shall be deemed to be a citizen of the state where it has its principal place of business and the state under whose laws it organized .  this provision is added to ensure that unincorporated associations receive the same treatment as corporations for purposes of diversity jurisdiction .  new subsection 1332 ( d ) ( 10 ) corrects this anomaly .  madam speaker , reclaiming my time , under new subsection 1332 ( d ) ( 6 ) , the claims of the individual class members in any class action shall be aggregated to determine whether the amount in controversy exceeds the sum or value of $ 5 million .  the sponsors intend this subsection to be interpreted broadly , and if a purported class action is removed under this provision , the plaintiff shall bear the burden of demonstrating that the $ 5 million threshold is not satisfied .  by the same token , if a federal court is uncertain about whether a case puts $ 5 million or more in controversy , the court should favor exercising jurisdiction over the case .  this principle applies to class actions seeking injunctive relief as well .  the sponsors intend that a matter be subject to federal jurisdiction under this provision if the value of the matter in litigation exceeds the $ 5 million , either from the viewpoint of the plaintiff or the viewpoint of the defendant , regardless of the type of relief sought , such as damages , injunctive relief or declaratory relief .  the sponsors are aware that some courts , especially in the class action context , have declined to exercise federal jurisdiction over cases on the grounds that the amount in controversy in those cases exceeded the jurisdictional threshold only when assessed from the viewpoint of the defendant .  for example , a class action seeking injunctive relief that would require a defendant to restructure its business in some fundamental way might cost a defendant well in excess of $ 75 , 000 under current law , but might have substantially less value to each plaintiff or even to the class of plaintiffs as a whole .  because s. 5 explicitly allows aggregation for the purposes of determining the amount of controversy in class actions , that concern is no longer relevant .  to the extent plaintiffs seek to avoid this rule by framing their cases as individual actions for injunctive relief , most federal courts have properly held that in an individual case the cost of injunctive relief is viewed from the defendant 's perspective .  this legislation extends that principle to class actions as well .  the same approach would apply in a case involving declaratory relief .  in determining how much money a declaratory relief case puts in controversy , the federal court should include in its assessment the value of all relief and benefits that would logically flow from the granting of the declaratory relief sought by the plaintiffs .  for example , a declaration that a defendant 's conduct is unlawful or fraudulent will carry certain consequences , such as the need to cease and desist from that conduct that will often cost the defendant in excess of $ 5 million ; or a declaration that a standardized product sold throughout the nation is defective might well put a case over the $ 5 million threshold , even if the class complaint did not affirmatively seek a determination that each class member was injured by the product .  the bottom line is that new section 1332 ( d ) is intended to substantially expand federal court jurisdiction over class actions , not to create loopholes .  this provision should be read broadly , with a strong preference that interstate class actions should be heard in a federal court if properly removed by a defendant .  reclaiming my time , madam speaker , i am pleased to answer the gentleman .  the first factor is whether the claims asserted are of significant national or interstate interest .  under this factor , if a case presents issues of national or interstate significance that argues in favor of the matter being handled in federal court , for example , if a class action alleges a nationally distributed pharmaceutical product caused side effects , those cases presumably should be heard in federal court because of the nationwide ramifications of the dispute and the potential interface with federal drug laws .  under this factor , the federal court should inquire whether the case does present issues of national or interstate significance of this sort .  if such issues are identified , that point favors the exercise of the federal jurisdiction .  the second factor is whether the claims asserted will be governed by laws other than those of the forum state .  the sponsors believe that one of the significant problems posed by multistate class actions in state court is the tendency of some state courts to be less than respectful of the laws of other jurisdictions , applying the law of one state to an entire nationwide controversy and thereby ignoring the distinct and varying state laws that should apply to various claims included in the class , depending upon where they arose .  under this factor , if the federal court determines that multiple state laws will apply to aspects of the class action , the determination would favor having the matter handled in the federal court system , which has a record of being more respectful of the laws of various states in the class action controversy .  conversely , if the court concludes that the laws of the state to which the action was filed will apply to the entire controversy , that factor will favor keeping the case in state court .  the third factor is whether the class action has been pleaded in a manner that seeks to avoid federal jurisdiction .  the purpose of this inquiry is to determine whether the plaintiffs have proposed a natural class , a class that encompasses all the people and claims that one would expect to include in a class action , as opposed to proposing a class that appears to be gerrymandered solely to avoid federal jurisdiction by leaving out certain potential class members or claims .  if the federal court concludes that evasive pleading is involved , that factor would favor the exercise of federal jurisdiction .  on the other hand , if the class definition and claims appear to follow a natural pattern , that consideration would favor allowing the matter to be handled by a state court .  the fourth factor is whether there is a distinct nexus between , a , the forum where the action was brought , and , b , the class members , the alleged harm or the defendants .  this factor is intended to take account of a major concern that led to this legislation , the filing of lawsuits in the out-of-the-way magnet state courts that have no real relationship to the controversy at hand .  thus , if a majority of the proposed class action members and the defendants reside in the county where the suit is brought , the court might find a distinct nexus exists .  the key to this factor is the notion of there being a distinct nexus .  if the allegedly injured parties live in many other localities , the nexus is not distinct , and this factor would weigh heavily in favor of the exercise of federal jurisdiction over the matter .  the fifth factor is whether the number of citizens in the forum state in the proposed plaintiff class is substantially larger than the number of citizens from any other state , and the citizens of the other members of the proposed class is dispersed among a substantial number of states .  this factor is intended to look at the geographic distribution of class members in an effort to determine the forum state 's interest in handling the litigation .  if all of the out-of-state class members are widely dispersed among many other states , that point would suggest that the interest of the forum state in litigating the controversy are preeminent .  the sponsors intend that such a conclusion would favor allowing the state court in which the action was originally filed to handle the litigation .  however , if a court finds that the citizenship of the other class members is not widely dispersed , then a federal forum would be more appropriate because several states other than the forum state would have a strong interest in the controversy .  the final factor is whether one or more class actions asserting the same or similar claims on behalf of the same or other persons have been filed in the last 3 years .  the purpose of this factor is to determine whether a matter should be subject to federal jurisdiction so that it can be coordinated with other overlapping or parallel class actions .  if the other class actions on the same subject have been or are likely to be filed elsewhere , the sponsors intend that this consideration would strongly favor the exercise of federal jurisdiction .  it is the sponsors ' intention that this factor be broadly interpreted and that plaintiffs not be able to plead around it with creative legal theories .  if a plaintiff brings a product liability suit alleging consumer fraud or unjust enrichment , and another suit was previously brought against some of the same defendants alleging negligence with regard to the same product , this factor would favor the exercise of federal jurisdiction over the later-filed claim .  madam speaker , reclaiming my time , yes , this provision is intended to respond to concerns that class actions with a truly local focus should not be moved to federal court under this legislation because state courts have a strong interest in adjudicating such disputes .  at the same time , this is a narrow exception that was carefully drafted to ensure that it does not become a jurisdictional loophole .  thus , each of the criteria is intended to identify a truly local class action .  first , there must be a primarily local class .  secondly , there must be at least one real local defendant .  and by that the drafters meant that the local defendant must be a primary focus of the plaintiffs ' claims , not just a retailer or other peripheral defendant .  the defendant must be a target from whom significant relief is sought by the class , as opposed to just a subset of the class membership , as well as being a defendant whose alleged conduct forms a significant basis for the claims asserted by the class .  for example , in a consumer fraud case , alleging that an insurance company incorporated and based in another state misrepresented its policies , the local agent of the company named as a defendant presumably would not fit this criteria .  he or she probably would have had contact with only some of the purported class members and , thus , would not be a person from whom significant relief would be sought by the plaintiff class viewed as a whole .  and , from a relief standpoint , the real demand of the full class in terms of seeking significant relief would be on the insurance company itself .  third , the principal injuries resulting from the actions of all the defendants must have occurred in the state where the suit was filed .  this criterion means that all or almost all of the damage caused by the defendants ' conduct occurred in the state where the suit was brought .  if defendants engaged in conduct that allegedly injured consumers throughout the country , the case would not qualify for the local controversy exception , even if it was only brought as a single state class action .  and , fourth , no other class action involving similar allegations has been filed against any of the defendants over the last 3 years .  in other words , if we are talking about a situation that results in multiple class actions , those are not the types of cases that this exception is intended to address .  i would like to stress that the inquiry under this criterion should not be whether identical or nearly identical class actions have been filed .  rather , the inquiry is whether similar factual allegations have been made against the defendant in multiple class actions , regardless of whether the same causes of action were asserted or whether the proposed plaintiff classes in the prior case was the same .  mr. speaker , reclaiming my time , i will be happy to explain .  the mass action provision was included in the bill because mass actions are really class actions in disguise .  they involve an element of people who want their claims adjudicated together , and they often result in the same abuses as class actions .  in fact , sometimes the abuses are even worse because the lawyers seek to join claims that have little to do with each other and confuse a jury into awarding millions of dollars to individuals who have suffered no real injury .  here is how the mass action provision and the current amount-in-controversy provision would work in tandem : suppose 200 people file a mass action in mississippi against a new jersey drug manufacturer and also name a local drug store .  three of them assert claims for a million dollars apiece , and the rest assert claims of $ 20 , 000 .  the federal court would have jurisdiction over the mass action because there are more than 100 plaintiffs , there is minimal diversity , and the total amount of controversy exceeds $ 5 million , and a product liability case does not qualify for the local occurrence exception in the provision .  then the question becomes , which claims would , in the mass action , the federal judge keep in federal court , and which would be remanded ?  at this point the judge would have to look at each of the claims very carefully and determine whether or not they meet the $ 75 , 000 minimum .  in this regard , i would note that the plaintiffs often seek to minimize what they are seeking in the complaint so that they can stay in state court .  for example , sometimes plaintiffs leave their claim for punitive damages off the original complaint to make it seem like their claims are smaller than they really are .  it is our expectation that a federal judge would read a complaint very carefully and only remand claims that clearly do not meet the $ 75 , 000 threshold .  if it is likely that a plaintiff is going to turn around in a month and add an additional claim for punitive damages , the federal court should obviously assert jurisdiction over that individual 's claims .  finally , i would like to stress that this provision in no way is intended to abrogate 8 united states code 3867 to narrow current jurisdictional rules .  thus , if a federal court believed it to be appropriate , the court could apply supplemental jurisdiction in the mass action context as well .  with regard to the exceptions , it is our intent that they be interpreted strictly by a court so that they do not become loopholes for an important jurisdictional provision .  thus , the first exception would apply only in a situation where we are talking about a truly local single event with no substantial interstate effects .  the purpose of this exception is to allow cases involving environmental torts , such as a chemical spill , to remain in state court if both the event and the injuries were truly local , even though there are some out-of-state defendants .  by contrast , this exception would not apply to a product liability or insurance case .  the sale of a product to different people does not qualify as an event , and the alleged injuries in such a case would be spread out over more than one state or contiguous states even if all of the plaintiffs in a particular case came from one single state .  the third exception addresses a very narrow situation , specifically a law like the california unfair competition law , which allows individuals to bring a suit on behalf of the general public .  such a suit would not qualify as a mass action .  however , the vast majority of cases brought under other states ' consumer fraud laws which do not have a parallel provision could qualify as removable class actions .  mr. speaker , reclaiming my time , once again , critics of the legislation have it backwards .  this legislation will streamline jurisdictional inquiries by putting an end to all of the gaming that takes place under the current system , and the so-called delay refers to procedural rules that already exist under the current system .  under existing law , diversity of citizenship between the parties must exist , both at the time a complaint is filed and at the time a complaint is removed to federal court .  however , if the plaintiff files an amended complaint in state court that creates jurisdiction , or if subsequent events create jurisdiction , the defendant can then remove the case to federal court .  current law is also clear that once a complaint is properly removed to federal court , the federal court 's jurisdiction can not be ousted by later events .  thus , for example , changes in the amount of controversy after the complaint has been removed would not subject a lawsuit to be remanded to state court .  mr. speaker , i reserve the balance of my time .  mr. speaker , i always thought that federal judges protected the rights of everybody .  mr. speaker , i yield myself the balance of the time .  mr. speaker , notwithstanding what we have heard from opponents of this legislation , its passage would not extinguish the legal right of any injured party , whether it be a class action , a mass action , or an individual lawsuit from proceeding in a court of competent jurisdiction in the united states .  what the bill does do is it puts some sense into the class action system so that the members of the plaintiff 's class will be fairly and adequately compensated rather than seeing all of their gains go to attorneys and them just getting coupon settlements from the people who have allegedly done them wrong .  i was particularly perturbed listening to the gentleman from massachusetts ( mr. markey )  , who said that the kids who start smoking at 13 and 14 years old are going to be denied their day in court , and that the tobacco companies are going to end up cashing in on a big bonanza .  well , i had my staff , while this was going on , look at what has happened to altria , the parent company of philip morris .  since the other body passed this bill , altria stock has gone down by at least $ 1.50 , or 2 percent .  and today , the reuters story that came out less than an hour ago says that the dow has been dragged down by altria .  now , if this was the bonanza to investors in altria , the stock would not be going down .  it is not .  that is a fallacious argument .  reject the substitute and pass the bill .  mr. speaker , pursuant to the rule , i claim the time in opposition .  mr. speaker , on that i demand the yeas and nays .  mr. speaker , i rise in support of s. 5 , the class action fairness act .  this legislation will work to balance class actions .  currently , plaintiffs ' lawyers take advantage of the system by bringing large , national lawsuits in specific jurisdictions with relaxed certification criteria .  attorneys are increasingly filing interstate class actions in state courts , mostly in what are known as `` magnet '' jurisdictions .  courts in these jurisdictions are attractive to lawyers because they routinely approve settlements in which attorneys receive large fees and the class members receive virtually nothing , and they also decide the claims of other state 's citizens under the court 's state law .  this results in more and more class actions being losing propositions for everyone involved -- except for the lawyers who brought them .  the class action fairness act works to improve our legal system by allowing larger interstate class action cases to be heard in federal courts , closing the magnet jurisdiction loophole .  this bill will also make it easier for local businesses to avoid harassment .  currently , plaintiffs ' lawyers can name a local business in a nationwide liability suit to stay out of federal court .  this legislation will put an end to this unfair practice .  finally , s. 5 protects consumers with a consumer class action bill of rights .  the bill of rights includes several provisions designed to ensure class members -- not their attorneys -- are the primary beneficiaries of the class action process , and are not simply awarded a coupon at the end of a trial .  allowing judges to limit attorney 's fees when the value of the settlement received by the class member is small in comparison and banning settlements that award some class members more simply because they live closer to the court will make class action suits more fair and help compensate the people who were wronged , not the attorney 's handling their case .  i strongly support s. 5 and encourage my colleagues to do so as well .  mr. speaker , i thank the chairman of the committee on the judiciary for yielding me time .  mr. speaker , all americans should thank the gentleman from virginia ( mr. goodlatte )  and the gentleman from wisconsin ( chairman sensenbrenner ) for their leadership on this most important issue .  the class action fairness act is a bipartisan , sensible bill that clarifies the rights of consumers and restores confidence in america 's judicial system .  it reforms the class action system and addresses the abuses that harm so many americans .  we have all heard of the lawsuits in which plaintiffs walk away with pennies , sometimes literally , while the attorneys walk away with millions of dollars in fees .  this problem will be addressed by providing greater scrutiny over settlements that involve coupons or very small cash amounts .  this legislation also ensures that deserving plaintiffs are able to make full use of the class action system .  it allows easier removal of class action cases to federal courts .  this is important because class actions tend to affect numerous americans and often involve millions of dollars .  federal court is the right place for such large lawsuits .  moving more class actions to federal courts also prevents one of the worst problems in class actions today , forum shopping .  mr. speaker , while many concessions were made on both sides , this is still a very worthwhile bill that contains many good reforms , and i fully support it and look forward to its enactment into law and also encourage my colleagues to support it as well .  mr. speaker , not too long ago , our nation 's courts were a place where americans were able to seek justice .  today , however , the system has become a playground for personal injury trial lawyers as they file sham , abusive cases in lawsuit-friendly counties .  and all too often the attorneys collect multimillion-dollar settlements for themselves , while their clients , the real victims , get left with nothing more than a coupon , often worth nothing more than the paper upon which it is printed .  recently , a large national video rental chain , after being named in 23 class-action lawsuits , agreed to provide consumers in the lawsuit with dollar coupons , and attorneys in this case received over $ 9 million .  even more outrageous is the case where consumers were awarded 33 cents each in a settlement with a well-known national bank , not even enough to buy a stamp , while attorneys in the case walked away with $ 4 million .  mr. speaker , this amount of money distorts the incentives for personal injury lawyers .  they no longer represent their clients ; they become coplaintiffs .  it is past time we did something about it .  that is why we should return commonsense justice to the american people by passing s. 5 , the class action fairness act .  mr. speaker , i rise today to support the rule and the underlying legislation ; and i want to thank my colleague from georgia for yielding me time .  mr. speaker , we have all received the class action settlement notices in our mail boxes , i know i have , not even realizing we were part of a class action lawsuit nor ever asking to be part of the lawsuit .  and not only that , but you never get to meet this attorney who will represent you .  as consumers , we need to know that we will eventually bear the cost of these companies that have to settle large class actions because it is easier to settle than to try to litigate against the trial lawyers .  earlier this week , the georgia general assembly moved forward with major legislation to reform the legal system , something i fought for during my time there .  this legislation continues that effort and takes a huge step forward to protect consumers by limiting these huge interstate class action lawsuits .  mr. speaker , federal courts have had jurisdiction over substantial cases between citizens of different states since the founding of this nation .  but due to the interpretations of the laws , state courts have had to bear the brunt of class action lawsuits in this country .  this legislation is a fantastic bipartisan effort to reform the legal system and is a good first step toward addressing the costs of litigation on small businesses , large businesses , and all americans .  i encourage my colleagues to support this effort ; and i appreciate the leadership shown by the speaker , the majority leader , and the chairman of the committee on the judiciary towards getting this legislation passed through the senate and on the desk of the president .  i urge my colleagues to support this measure , the rule and the legislation .  mr. speaker , i would like to thank my good friend and colleague , the gentleman from florida , for yielding me time .  mr. speaker , i rise in support of the rule and the budget resolution .  the rule allows for debate , along with three substitutes , two of which were offered by the minority .  i think it is a good rule .  i commend the gentleman from iowa ( chairman nussle ) and members of the committee on the budget on a good product that addresses several of the concerns that i have had with president bush 's budget .  i am pleased that the budget provides for extension of tax cuts that have brought 20 months of job growth to our nation 's economy .  i also agree with the increases for our national defense and homeland security to provide for our troops fighting the war on terror and to keep our communities safe .  one source of concern for me was the community development block grant program .  it is crucial to city and rural areas across my district .  the president 's budget proposed reducing funds to the cdbg and 17 other economic development programs from $ 5.31 billion to $ 3.71 billion .  i am pleased that the committee on the budget added an additional $ 1.1 billion to the president 's request for the functional category encompassing these programs .  this budget resolution makes no assumption on the president 's proposed communities initiative .  our veterans deserve the very best health care and services our nation can offer them .  funding for veterans have increased by 47 percent over the past 4 years , and i am pleased that the committee added $ 297 million this year to the president 's budget proposal for veterans , and i will continue to seek further and additional funding for our veterans and their health care .  i continue to have some concerns with the budget .  i am a strong supporter of vocational education and trio programs .  the president 's budget proposal would combine these into a high school intervention initiative and reduce funding .  trio programs are very successful .  i actually worked in one in helping low income students with their transition to college .  vocational ed programs offer many high school students the motivation to work hard in all of their classes and provide job skills who do not go on to college .  i look forward to working with appropriators to ensure adequate funding levels for both trio and vocational ed .  medicaid funds are very important also to all west virginians , particularly low income west virginians , and i urge my colleagues to avoid cuts to medicaid as the reconciliation instructions found in this resolution are implemented .  i look forward to working with my colleagues to ensure that these priorities like veterans education , economic development and medicaid are adequately funded as the process continues .  i support the rule and the resolution .  mr. speaker , by direction of the committee on rules , i call up house resolution 154 and ask for its immediate consideration .  mr. speaker , for the purpose of debate only , i yield the customary 30 minutes to the gentlewoman from new york ( ms. slaughter )  , pending which i yield myself such time as i may consume .  mr. speaker , i yield myself such time as i may consume .  mr. speaker , i appreciate the concern of the ranking member of the committee on ways and means in regard to the alternative minimum tax .  the gentleman will be delighted to learn that this budget makes accommodation for a further amt extension of relief so that middle-class americans are not impacted by that amt provision that originated in the committee on ways and means .  the gentleman from new york will be further delighted to know that the budget process allows the flexibility and the discretion for that authorizing committee to make those changes rather than having the committee on the budget direct them for them .  mr. speaker , i yield myself such time as i may consume .  i thank the gentleman and the previous speakers for drawing attention to the looming crisis that impacts people my age in social security , the people who frankly have come to the conclusion that unless congress acts sooner rather than later , there will not be that program and that dramatic and important action is needed .  but coming back to the rule on the budget , which is the order of the day , it is also good to know that it is more about what reforms we will be taking up later this year are dominating the discussion , which i take to mean and assume to mean that the overall and underlying budget itself is a sound one and that the rule is fair .  mr. speaker , i reserve the balance of my time .  mr. speaker , i yield myself such time as i may consume .  this is a vigorous debate about the priorities that are embodied in our budget blueprint .  but for the second day in a row now , we have had this characterized as a government without a conscience .  yet since 1995 , we have seen dramatic and historic increases to idea , individuals with disabilities education act .  title i , historically high numbers .  veterans health care , $ 18.9 billion in fiscal year 2000 , $ 30 billion today .  education numbers , up in double digits .  hhs and nih , doubled .  that is not a government without a conscience .  that is a government that has seen unsustainable rates of increases to discretionary domestic spending .  this budget turns that corner and begins the process of slowing the growth in mandatory and discretionary but continuing to provide for those priorities , continuing to make those tough decisions in ways that have been avoided by prior congresses .  mr. speaker , i reserve the balance of my time .  mr. speaker , i yield myself such time as i may consume .  i am delighted to provide the gentleman some facts .  fact number one , title i has grown 10 percent per year since 2000 .  pell grant funding , grown 10.3 percent per year since 2000 .  no child left behind funding , grown 40 percent .  special education since 1996 has more than quadrupled .  funding for idea has quadrupled since 1996 .  idea funded only 8 percent of the per pupil expenditure in 1994 and 1995 .  now it is nearly 20 percent .  the education department discretionary budget authority has increased 146 percent since 1995 .  those are the facts .  was there not a conscience in the congress prior to 1995 ?  is a 146 percent increase unconscionable ?  the commitment to education , the commitment to health care , the commitment to the nih , the commitment to defense and the commitment to policies that expand and grow our economy and give americans tremendous opportunities have been embodied in our budgets and are embodied in this budget .  mr. speaker , i reserve the balance of my time .  mr. speaker , i yield myself such time as i may consume .  there will be that opportunity , this being the rule on the budget ; but i will engage in a bit of discussion about the social security because i am one who will gain or lose a great deal , being someone who will reach that retirement age at that year of insolvency .  and it is shocking to me that the party who gave us social security , and should be very proud of it and are , are almost in complete denial about the looming crisis that it faces and refuse to accept the fact that , regardless of which option we choose to solve the problem , that it is something that should be kicked down the road to future generations , to future congresses , to future years .  and there is a stone wall of resistance to any discussion at all about for once congress getting ahead of a big issue , for once congress actually dealing with the problem before it is crashing down around our heads , for once congress actually being bold and looking into the future beyond the next budget cycle , beyond the next election , beyond the next short-term problem and actually tackling it and dealing with it .  anyone who has been through their freshman orientation upon being elected has a bipartisan group give them the long-term unfunded liabilities of this government , and we acknowledge that there are vast differences in the approach to saving social security .  but , unfortunately , largely with one bold , brave exception in the gentleman from florida ( mr. boyd )  , there has been total resistance to have any constructive effort to bring about a solution to this problem .  mr. speaker , reclaiming my time , i appreciate the gentleman 's comments .  i look forward to that constructive effort because we share that passion that those 55 and older , those at or near retirement , will not be impacted .  but by golly , we have got an obligation to those people who are under 35 or under 45 or whatever number we finally arrive at , people who have time to plan and people who know , and all of us know , of all stripes , that there will be a problem in either 2040 or 2041 or 2042 .  we can argue over months and weeks all day long , but the point is we are not doing anything to take care of that first-year teacher , that first-year firefighter , that first-year soldier that all of us stand up on a regular basis and claim to speak for .  mr. speaker , i reserve the balance of my time .  mr. speaker , i yield myself such time as i may consume .  i would respectfully request that the gentleman give us the page number and paragraph of this budget blueprint that cuts the witness protection program .  as the gentleman knows , the budget document is a broad blueprint for spending that directs the authorizing committees , those committees of members who have developed expertise in their areas , to find savings through reconciliation instructions .  it allows members like the gentleman from new york ( mr. rangel )  on the committee on ways and means to best formulate those revenue measures that avoid amt taxing ; that allows members of the committee on energy and commerce to deal with the issues facing medicaid program , which all of the governors acknowledge is swallowing up state budgets ; that allows the committee on agriculture to fund within their committee 's jurisdiction those savings in a variety of programs .  this budget blueprint is a sound document that sets the course for our congress and for our nation for the coming year ; and the cuts that the gentleman refers to are reductions in the rate of growth in those programs , with the exception of the reconciliation instructions , which are a remarkable and historic first step to this congress restraining spending and funding priorities and simultaneously getting our arms around the deficit that both parties are understandably concerned about .  mr. speaker , i reserve the balance of my time .  mr. speaker , i have taken the time in opposition to this resolution not so much to object to the well-intended notions of the gentlewoman and the promotion of freedom and liberty .  it is just that i do not think this is going to achieve it .  as a matter of fact , when we pursue resolutions like this and a more aggressive foreign policy of telling other countries what to do , i see it as more of a threat to our security rather than helping our security .  i , for one , would admit i personally do not know what is best for the lebanese and the syrians , the iraqis , or anybody else in the region ; but i would argue the case that traditionally in this country up until probably the past 100 years , we took a different position on foreign policy .  we took a position of nonintervention , one where we strived for neutrality , and we argued the case that we did not have any business in the internal affairs of other nations .  no matter how well intended , there always seem to be ramifications .  there seem to be unintended consequences .  there seems to be a condition called `` blow-back , '' where it comes back and ends up where we suffer more than anybody else .  for instance , we are in iraq right now with all these good intentions .  we have been there for a couple of years .  we have spent over $ 200 billion , and this week they came out with a survey and they talked about the most dangerous city in the world and where security is the worst , and that city is not beirut .  in the last 2 years , every one of us would have rather have been in beirut than we would have been in iraq .  and yet we have 140 , 000 troops there protecting the iraqis and promoting freedom and liberty and elections , and it sounds good .  but i think if we are honest with ourselves , the results are not nearly as wonderful as we would like them to be .  the other thing that concerns me is that we lose credibility when we talk about what we want and what we will impose on other nations , because when we are claiming that the lebanese can not possibly have elections with the presence of foreign troops , at the same time we daily hear the bragging about the great election in iraq where we had these 140 , 000 troops and total martial law in order for an election to take place .  i am all for the elections , and i am a strong supporter of self-determination ; but i do not correlate that with our policies .  we saw demonstrations , first a little at a demonstration orchestrated in support of getting syria out of lebanon , and then there was a response to that where 500 , 000 showed up supporting hezbollah claiming they supported syria , and then of course following that there was a much bigger demonstration .  so the people have had freedom to express themselves .  but the one thing about all the demonstrations , we never saw a sign that said , america , come save us , come in here , tell us what to do , tell us what to do with our elections .  they have had elections going on for you in lebanon without any violence directed against syrian troops as we see daily in iraq .  they have an election coming up in may .  it has been scheduled all along .  it is not like they have been avoiding them .  we complain a lot about the syrians being there , and if i have a personal preference , since i believe in self-determination , i would have the troops out just as i would have our troops out of most other places .  but i would have foreign troops out of the golan heights .  why are we so excited about the syrian troops , who were invited by the lebanese government ?  why are we not excited about foreign troops in the golan heights and in the over 100 countries where that we have troops ?  so i think we lose credibility .  i think the arab people just laugh at us and say , oh , yes , they are for these wonderful elections , and they have got to get these troops out ; and at the same time we have troops all over the place .  the syrians went into lebanon in 1976 , and if we go back and look at history , it was at the urging of the government of the united states because there was about to be an election .  and at that time , it was perceived that the election would undermine the minorities , the christians and the druse .  so , therefore , it was in our interest at that time to interfere with the election , just as we have interfered so many times since then over the world .  just think of the elected leader in 1953 in iran , the elected leader , mossadeq .  but he did not follow what we wanted him to do with regards to oil .  so what did we do ?  we sent in the cia .  we overthrew him , and then we had our puppet government , the shah , for 25 years , which did nothing more than provide fodder for the radicals , and we radicalized the ayatollahs against us .  in a conversation with a veteran of the cia , an expert in this region , he explained , at least he sincerely believed , that we did a tremendous favor for osama bin laden , and that is to go into iraq , expose ourselves , and then create the chaos of iraq .  where there was no al qaeda before , it is now a haven for al qaeda .  it has served as a recruiting ground for al qaeda .  so no matter how well the intentions are , we should look at the conclusions ; what finally happens .  our problem very simply comes from the violation of the basic principle that we should follow , and that is that we should be friends with nations and trade with nations , and that we should be neutral in foreign affairs , because it does not serve our interests .  it costs a lot of money and it costs a lot of credibility and it costs a lot of lives .  just think of what the interference in iraq has cost us : over 1 , 500 men ; over 11 , 000 battle casualties , with another 9 , 000 sent home because of illness ; and over $ 200 billion .  and there is no end in sight .  today we had to pass another $ 82 billion , which was not put into the budget , to continue this process .  my argument is it comes not because we make a misjudgment , not that this resolution is simply a misjudgment of the day ; it just is that is part of the misjudgments that we have made now for many , many decades in overall foreign policy .  it is fully endorsed .  the american people certainly have not been up in arms about it and have endorsed it , along with the large majority in the congress .  but long term it does not work .  just look how long the american people supported vietnam , until finally they had to throw up their arms and demand an end to the senseless war .  but , ultimately , not only do the people get very angry and upset and frustrated with the loss of life , there are economic limitations to this as well , and that is something that i do not think anybody here hardly pays any attention to ; that is how long can we continue to spend this money and not have this come back to really haunt us economically ?  the 1960s came back to haunt us in the 1970s , and the basic financial condition of this country is much worse than it was in the 1970s .  yet there is no hesitation .  i see resolutions like this as not restraint , but encouragement , without looking back and seeing how we participated in contributing to the problems that we have in the middle east .  so i am making the suggestion , why do we not think about overall policy with consistency , and think almost what is in our best interests ?  i would like to read a quote from ronald reagan , because he was involved in lebanon and our government was involved in the early 1980s .  in his memoirs he admits it was a serious mistake , and we ought to take advice from ronald reagan on what he said about his misadventure in lebanon .  we were in there in 1983 .  this is what he writes in his memoirs several years later .  `` perhaps we did n't appreciate fully enough the depth of the hatred and complexity of the problems that made the middle east such a jungle .  perhaps the idea of a suicide car bomber committing mass murder to gain instant entry into paradise was so foreign to our own values and consciousness that it did not create in us the concern for the marines ' safety that it should have. '' further quoting ronald reagan , `` in the weeks immediately after the bombing , i believed the last thing we should do was turn tail and leave ... ..  yet , the irrationality of middle eastern politics forced us to rethink our policies there. '' he concluded with advising us to stay clear .  i would like to suggest that i believe that is pretty good advice .  mr. speaker , i reserve the balance of my time .  mr. speaker , i yield myself such time as i may consume .  mr. speaker , i do want to make one point about the resolution .  the statement toward the ends says : the president should direct the united states representative to the united nations to present and secure reports for the united nations security council classifying lebanon as a captive country in calling for the immediate release of lebanese detainees in syria and lebanon .  now that is pretty interesting that we are going to tell them who they can release and who they should release .  but the question i have , and maybe the sponsors of the resolution could answer this : will that include that we insist that they release the prisoners that we have sent to syria ?  mr. speaker , i move to suspend the rules and agree to the concurrent resolution ( h. con .  res. 32 ) expressing the grave concern of congress regarding the occupation of the republic of lebanon by the syrian arab republic , as amended .  mr. speaker , i ask unanimous consent that all members may have 5 legislative days within which to revise and extend their remarks and include extraneous material on h. con .  res. 32 , expressing the grave concern of congress regarding the occupation of the republic of lebanon by the syrian arab republic .  mr. speaker , i yield myself such time as i may consume .  i thank the leadership for bringing this important resolution before the house today at a time when hundreds of thousands of lebanese are flocking to the streets issuing cries for freedom .  it is critical that the united states congress reaffirm its commitment to the restoration of lebanese sovereignty and independence and specifically acknowledge the plight that lebanon has endured as a captive nation .  house concurrent resolution 32 does exactly that , mr. speaker .  for too long lebanon has been denied its independence by the regime in damascus , a regime that has imposed its will upon the lebanese people through electoral intimidation , through political persecution , through assassination of opposition leaders and brutal military force .  but the lebanese people 's desire to be free and sovereign could not be silenced and could not be repressed any longer .  the protests that have followed the valentine 's day bombing in beirut that killed former prime minister hariri ushered in an immediate demand from a unifiable and diverse lebanese opposition for syria to withdraw from lebanon .  the streets of beirut earlier this week boasted the largest anti-syrian demonstration in lebanese history and possibly the largest pro-democracy rally in middle east history in response to the syrian and iranian-sponsored hezbollah rally a week earlier .  for the first time , a number of moderate shiites joined the druze , sunnis and christian groups whose anger and grief over the brutal tactics of the syrian occupiers and their lebanese collaborators have galvanized them into action , into a coordinated effort to reclaim lebanon 's sovereignty .  house concurrent resolution 32 clearly articulates the threat to u.s. national security interests and to regional stability posed by syria 's presence in lebanon .  and the threat is not limited to syrian intelligence and military , but to its terrorist proxy , hezbollah , which uses lebanese territory as a launching pad for attacks against israel and a training ground for terrorists targeting u.s. and other western interests .  thus , at a time when this body has clearly articulated our stand regarding hezbollah just a few days ago , let us underscore that we will not tolerate an appeasement of hezbollah in lebanon .  house concurrent resolution 32 builds on recent developments and calls for the president to instruct the u.s. permanent representative to the united nations to present and secure support for a security council resolution classifying lebanon as a captive nation .  it calls for the president , pursuant to existing law , to freeze all assets in the u.s. belonging to lebanese government officials who are found to support and aid in syria 's occupation of lebanon .  finally , mr. speaker , it calls for the united states policy to include support for the independent human rights and pro-democracy advocates in lebanon and for the full restoration of sovereign democratic rule there .  the resolution underscores the u.s. position against syria 's brutal occupation of lebanon and u.s. policy about holding state sponsors of terrorism accountable for their actions .  calling for syria to depart from lebanon once and for all is in keeping with the post-9/11 approach of forcing terrorists out of their caves and placing them on the run .  the u.s. position on syrian withdrawal forces the terrorists to retreat to their own soil ; and in doing so , it seeks to limit their impact so that freedom and democracy can flourish once again in lebanon and throughout the region .  the lebanese people have had enough , and they will not allow their territory to continue to be used as a staging ground for terrorists and their state sponsors .  let us stand with the lebanese people and overwhelmingly adopt this resolution .  i strongly urge my colleagues to support h. con .  res. 32 and send a clear message to the syrian terrorist regime to get out of lebanon .  not to the border ; not to the bekaa valley .  completely out .  god willing , as our arab-speaking lebanese brothers and sisters would say , inshallah , we will soon witness a free , independent , sovereign , and democratic lebanon .  mr. speaker , i reserve the balance of my time .  mr. speaker , i reserve the balance of my time .  mr. speaker , i reserve the balance of my time .  mr. speaker , i yield myself such time as i may consume .  mr. speaker , i would like to thank yleem poblete and paul ostburg sanz , long and dedicated , hardworking members , staffers on our committee on these measures and the work of the subcommittee on the middle east and central asia .  i would like to thank chairman hyde of the international relations committee , for understanding the need to support the lebanese people at this critical time , and moving this resolution quickly through the committee .  i would also like to commend our leadership for their commitment to freedom and democracy for all the people of the middle east .  lastly , i must make special mention of the efforts and cooperation of our subcommittee ranking member , gary ackerman , and especially our full committee ranking member , tom lantos .  tom lantos has experienced first hand what happens when one appeases dictators and ignores the oppression of human beings .  we can not stand idly by and allow syria to continue to deny the lebanese people their rights and their nation .  thanks to the cooperation of my colleagues on the other side of the aisle , we are able to send a clear and unified message to both the syrian oppressors and to the lebanese people .  as we did with the syrian accountability and lebanese sovereignty restoration , we have an opportunity today , by supporting h. con .  res. 32 , to demonstrate a united front and show that freedom transcends party lines , geographic borders , and language barriers .  when it comes to freedom and democracy , the u.s. is speaking with one voice , as the lebanese people are speaking with one voice .  in so doing , we become one with our brothers and sisters in lebanon as they seek to remove the shackles of syrian tyranny and occupation .  i urge my colleagues to vote in favor of this resolution .  mr. speaker , i rise to encourage u.s. support of the people of lebanon in their struggle to free themselves from syrian occupation .  syria has illegitimately held control over its neighbor for 25 years , a situation which can no longer be permitted to continue .  syria has proved itself an utterly destructive force upon its neighbor , lebanon .  syria has systematically deprived the lebanese people of their many liberties .  it has illegally extended the terms of pro-syrian officials within the lebanon government by altering the lebanese constitution .  it has and continues to intimidate lebanese dissenters with threats of political persecution .  lebanese citizens with views not in keeping with syrian authorities have been arrested , kidnapped , tortured and in some instances even killed .  the lebanese press has been effectively stifled in order to repress anti-syrian sentiment .  finally , and most reprehensively , syria has allowed and even funded the continued existence of the terrorist group hezbollah within the southern shebaa when it first sent troops to help quell the lebanese civil war , syria claimed its purpose was to stabilize the country .  instead syria has consistently prevented lebanon from becoming the stable and prosperous state for which many lebanese patriots , including the late former prime minister rafik hariri , have toiled .  today the people of lebanon are taking to the streets , crying out for their freedom from this foreign oppression .  as an american of lebanese descent , my heart is with them .  my ancestors came to this country in search of greater freedom .  now , as i watch the lebanese freedom movement , i am filled with the hope that the citizens of my country of origin will soon have the chance to claim the liberties for which my ancestors sought in coming to the united states .  consequently , mr. speaker , i urge my fellow members to pass h. con .  res. 32 in support of the lebanese struggle for independence .  syria must be made to know in no uncertain terms that we expect the complete withdrawal of its troops from lebanon , the immediate dissolution of hezbollah , and the immediate termination of interference within lebanon 's government .  mr. chairman , i want to thank the gentleman from iowa ( mr. nussle )  for his hard work on this budget and for yielding me this time to talk about his budget and this alternative .  certainly his committee and he under his leadership have worked hard to bring us a fiscally responsible budget .  the base bill we are debating today is the most fiscally conservative budget resolution we have considered since we joined the congress .  the cuts we are hearing about in medicaid are really a reduction of the growth .  the cut in medicaid , as i read the base budget , is a cut in the growth rate of 7.5 percent to a growth rate of 7.3 percent .  where i live , and i suspect where most of us live , 7.3 percent growth would not be seen as a cut .  the committee 's budget permits us to extend recently enacted tax relief so that american families will not see a tax increase .  what we have found is that if we trust the american people and american families , our economy grows again and it is growing .  passage of the committee 's budget will provide for a real reduction of nearly 1 percent in nonsecurity discretionary spending .  after holding the line on that category of spending at almost no growth in the last budget year , we hope to do even better this year and actually have a reduction of 1 percent below last year 's spending .  furthermore , the budget calls for a reduction in the rate of growth of mandatory spending .  in addition to reducing spending , this bill will ultimately save taxpayers almost $ 69 billion over the next 5 years .  only rarely has the congress even been willing to discuss looking at mandatory spending .  almost all of our debate about spending is about the increasingly declining percentage of the budget that is discretionary .  we are increasingly losing our control over the budget because we have not been willing to tackle mandatory spending .  the chairman 's budget , the committee 's budget , says that mandatory spending can be , must be , and will be dealt with .  it sets the targets for the authorizing committees to do their work and find the places to make this process more efficient and cut the growth in spending in those mandatory categories that the chairman 's budget , the committee 's budget , sets out .  that does put us on a path to cutting the deficit in half within 5 years .  the chairman 's budget , the committee 's budget , mr. chairman , is a good budget .  i am proud of the work the budget committee and the chairman have done .  i urge we move this budget forward today , we do the tough things in discretionary spending and mandatory spending it asks us to do , that we defeat the substitute and get on with our work .  mr. chairman , i yield myself such time as i may consume .  mr. chairman , i am pleased to bring before the house today the fiscal year 2006 appropriations bill for agriculture , rural development , the fda and related agencies .  as many people know , this bill does not just fund agriculture issues that are so important for the nation and the world but also funds the food and drug administration , the women , infants and children program , and the food stamp program .  there are a wide variety of issues that are very significant to this nation and the world .  this is a bipartisan bill , mr. chairman .  i am very proud this year to have worked for the first time with the gentlewoman from connecticut ( ms. delauro )  , who was a great partner in putting this bill together , as are all the members of the subcommittee .  this is a great subcommittee that comes to the table every day with sometimes differences of opinion , but at the end of the day want to get a bill done .  as chairman of this subcommittee , it has been a very fulfilling experience to have gone through this process with this great group .  we have difficult challenges every year when we put this subcommittee mark together and when we put the bill together .  we had over 2 , 100 individual requests from members ; so with the good staff that we have that i will get into a little more later , we have had to go through with a fine-tooth comb every request to make sure that it does not overlap with another request and then to prioritize all of these very important issues that come from members all over the country .  i would also like to thank the staff for working on this .  i want to take a moment to mention some very important names who have worked on this bill , sometimes day and night and on weekends as well : martha foley of the minority staff ; and maureen holohan , leslie barrack , and jamie swafford of the majority staff .  in addition , i want to thank our detailee tom o'brien and walt smith from my personal staff ; and , of course , my distinguished clerk , martin delgado , who does a fabulous job on this bill .  i also want to take a brief moment to recognize joanne perdue who worked on the committee for several years and retired from the committee just this past month .  mr. chairman , i would also like to point out just in very broad terms that this bill takes care of a lot of issues that are critical not just to agriculture producers but to consumers in terms of food safety , research projects that are going on in every state in this nation .  a lot of people go to the grocery store , mr. chairman , and they see that big truck pulling up in the back of the store and unloading goods that are put on shelves and in the freezers at the local grocery store and their products that are sold at a high quality for a good price .  quite frankly , most americans do not know all of the policy and all of the research and all of the hard work that goes into putting that product on the shelf so that americans can go into the store , use those coupons and enjoy themselves and the quality of life that it brings to americans all across the country .  again , there is a lot of detail that goes into putting this bill together .  i am also very proud to work hand in hand with the gentleman from virginia ( mr. goodlatte )  , our authorizing chairman , who has been a partner in this process not just this year but every year .  so all of these policies and all of these programs that i am talking about here have been a team effort .  mr. chairman , i include at this point in the record the following tabular material related to the bill : mr. chairman , i reserve the balance of my time .  yes , mr. chairman .  it is my understanding that there are benefits to the organic transition program being managed as part of the integrated organic program , and my intention is that it should continue to be managed as it was in fiscal years 2004 and 2005 .  mr. chairman , i reserve the balance of my time .  mr. chairman , i reserve the balance of my time .  madam chairman , i reserve the balance of my time .  madam chairman , i reserve the balance of my time .  madam chairman , the gentleman has worked very hard on this project ; and at this time , as chairman , i would like to commit to trying to resolve this problem to his satisfaction between now and the conference .  madam chairman , i reserve the balance of my time .  madam chairman , we have no additional speakers at this time .  i thank the gentleman .  mr. chairman , absolutely .  let me point out that the gentleman from kansas is not only working hard on this particular issue , but he is a key player on agricultural issues that we deal with on a daily basis here in washington .  i am not only on this issue , but whatever issue the gentleman brings forward , we are ready and willing to discuss , work with and solve problems with him .  he comes to the table every day very serious about these issues and truly in his heart wants to solve issues that face agriculture across the country .  mr. chairman , i make a point of order .  mr. chairman , i move that the committee do now rise .  the motion was agreed to .  accordingly , the committee rose ; and the speaker pro tempore ( mr. king  of iowa ) having assumed the chair , mr. ryan  of wisconsin , chairman of the committee of the whole house on the state of the union , reported that that committee , having had under consideration the bill ( h.r. 2744 ) making appropriations for agriculture , rural development , food and drug administration , and related agencies for the fiscal year ending september 30 , 2006 , and for other purposes , had come to no resolution thereon .  mr. chairman , i want to congratulate you on this budget .  i think the american people are smart enough to recognize truth and demagoguery .  that is what you hear on this house floor is demagoguery , and that is completely unfortunate .  i believe that ensuring that the disabled , the injured , the low-income and special needs veterans are given the highest attention .  that is the priority of our nation .  in establishing priorities of care for veterans health care , this congress also believes that the same military values that guided servicemembers on active duty should define how services and assistance are provided to them as veterans .  it is why we established the priorities of care , one , two , three , four , five , six , seven , eight .  this budget takes into consideration the present budgetary constraints , the aging veteran population , as well as the influx of veterans into the system as the nation continues to fight the war on terror throughout the world .  as chairman of the committee on veterans ' affairs , i seek an increase in $ 12.6 million for the medical and prosthetic research projects above the president 's budget request .  we also increased by $ 293 million for state nursing home partnership .  we increase about $ 300 million discretionary funding for veterans health care , despite the demagoguery you will hear from some members on this floor .  to ensure that our national cemeteries are maintained as the shrines that they are , my subcommittee chairman , the gentleman from florida ( mr. miller )  , and i recommended an additional $ 45.6 million in construction to begin a 5-year $ 300 million national shrine commitment project to repair and restore the existing national cemeteries .  but while our greatest attention should be focused on those who have served us and can no longer fend for themselves , there is another group of veterans that needs our help : our soldiers , sailors , airmen and marines who need assistance in returning to the workforce or entering the workforce for the first time after serving their country .  this budget will also ensure that the va benefits take care of the young solder coming home , as well as the older soldier who may already have a family .  we need to make sure that the va is flexible and personal in its delivery of health care and benefits , such as training and education .  this is a wise investment , harnessing the same spirit and drive that has won our nation 's battles , to contribute to our nation 's workforce and to sustain our national competitive edge .  to facilitate this investment , i created a new subcommittee solely devoted to this effort chaired by the gentleman from arkansas ( mr. boozman )  .  the gentleman from iowa ( mr. nussle )  , as chairman of the committee on the budget , has done an outstanding job .  he has led congress through some challenging budgetary times as chairman .  some may forget the meaning of the attacks upon our country on september 11 .  it was an attack upon our freedom , upon our way of life .  it was devastating to our economy .  that economic growth has returned , but we also now need to manage that economic growth smartly .  there is a lot of rhetoric , but let me return to some facts .  under this president , spending for veterans has increased by 47 percent in 5 years versus 32 percent in the 8 years under the clinton administration .  if i turn to the chart to my left , as the chart shows , over the last 7 years discretionary spending has grown 39.5 percent under the va-hud appropriations bill .  that is a 4.9 percent average increase for every year from 1998 all the way to present .  so despite all the rhetoric that america and my colleagues will hear , the reality is this chart .  the spending on veterans continues to increase , maintaining our commitment to veterans in america .  i also would like to turn to a second chart i think is very interesting .  on this chart it shows what happened under the democrat control of congress .  congressional spending per veteran was flat .  for 10 years a meager $ 400 increase for 10 years from 1984 to 1994 .  can everybody see this ?  it was flat .  to my colleagues on this side of the aisle , do you see this ?  it was flat for 10 years .  you did not hear demagoguery on the house floor .  what you had at the time were individuals on both sides of the aisle working together in a bipartisan fashion with regard to how we deal with veterans .  so what we have under the republican control the last 10 years is from 1995 to 2005 congress increased spending by $ 1 , 400 per veteran , that is from $ 1 , 368 to $ 2 , 773 per veteran .  i think this chart is very clear .  what has occurred under democrat control is flat-lined budget for veterans .  i am not going to demagogue .  it is just a reality .  now with regard to what has happened under republican control , the increase and the maintaining of our commitment to veterans programs and causes across the board .  this is the reality .  i want to say to the budget chairman , i want to thank him .  he has given me a task , and the task is that with regard to all of these programs in discretionary and mandatory , are there savings out there ?  are these systems being run smartly and effectively and efficiently ?  he has challenged those of us who serve on the committee on veterans ' affairs .  and you know what ?  we will accept the challenge , and we will go and work together in a bipartisan fashion and see if we can find those savings .  he has not dictated to us .  he has challenged us and we accept the challenge .  how much time do i have remaining , mr. chairman ?  mr. chairman , i thank the gentleman for yielding to me .  over the past decade , funding for nasa 's aeronautics research has declined by more than half , to about $ 900 million .  the president 's budget proposes to cut aeronautics research by 20 percent over the next 5 years .  i am concerned that the united states is losing critical expertise in aeronautics research and development .  this degradation will have a tragic impact on military and civilian aviation , which contributes significantly to our national defense and our economy .  i believe that the president 's funding levels for aeronautics programs should be reassessed and that the house should give priority to restoring these vital programs .  will the gentleman commit to bring to the conference report language that will clarify that the resolution makes no assumption regarding the president 's proposed funding level for nasa 's aeronautics research programs ?  mr. chairman , i thank the gentlewoman for his answer .  mr. chairman , i thank the gentleman for yielding me this time .  before us today is an excellent budget , the result of an excellent process , and the product of an excellent chairman , the gentleman from iowa .  despite some occasional overheated rhetoric , the fiscal year 2006 budget resolution is , in fact , a modest attempt by a reasonable majority to hold down the growth of government spending .  this is one of the strongest budgets i have seen since coming to congress .  true , it makes tough choices .  imagine , it prioritizes spending , and it starts the long process of modernizing the federal government while rooting out waste , fraud , and inefficiency .  but , mr. chairman , american taxpayers deserve no less , especially today .  we are at war with an enemy who threatens us here at home and on the other side of the world .  our security spending must therefore take priority , and in turn we must make difficult but necessary choices about non-security spending .  that is exactly what this budget does .  it meets our needs at home and abroad without raising taxes , which would stifle our economy , or wasting money , which undermines the hard work the american people did to earn those tax dollars in the first place .  of course , for some people , regardless of the fiscal and international circumstances , taxes and spending are never high enough .  this year , as every year , they have warned us about the dire consequences of trusting the american people with their own money .  last year , the same critics made the same criticism of our efforts , which we now know ultimately slowed the growth of non-security discretionary spending to about 1 percent .  these critics assured us that our budget would bust a hole in the deficit .  and yet last year , the deficit came in $ 109 billion smaller than experts originally thought it would , specifically because of the increased economic growth directly attributed to republican tax relief passed since 2001 .  millions of jobs were created last year .  indeed , more than 3 million of them have been created since the house took up president bush 's similarly criticized jobs and growth tax relief package 21 months ago .  so , in short , mr. chairman , the economic data coming in every month speaks to the wisdom of the fiscal policies of the republican majority .  the critics were just wrong , and they are wrong again this year .  the principal mantra against this budget is that it will explode the deficit , despite the evidence of last year 's shrinking deficit projections .  what , one wonders , do they think that the $ 67.1 billion in additional spending that they propose at the committee on the budget markup would do ?  the balanced budgets of the late 1990s should serve as our model , they say .  well , i agree .  and i would remind them that the balanced budgets of the late 1990s were passed by republican congresses , without much help from our friends on the other side of the aisle .  hardly any of them voted for it .  how anyone takes credit for policies they opposed is beyond me , but i guess that is politics .  but , again , so is the idea that raising $ 392.4 billion in new taxes , as committee on the budget democrats proposed just last week , would somehow help the economy to create jobs .  well , mr. chairman , the facts are indisputable : democracy is on the march around the world ; the war on terror is being won ; the economy is growing ; jobs are being created ; deficit projections are shrinking ; and the looming demographic crises facing social security and medicare are being addressed , all thanks to the courage , the policies and the leadership of president bush and this republican congress .  that the same people who have criticized us all along are criticizing our budget today , mr. chairman , only suggests we must be doing something right .  so i urge all my colleagues to give more momentum to our success and support the budget resolution before us .  mr. chairman , i yield myself such time as i may consume .  it is a real privilege to rise tonight to take on the role of discussing the statutorily required humphrey-hawkins side of this debate ; that is , to consider how this budget fits into the overall economic policy of the united states .  we have heard so far a very engaging debate , and may i say , the chairman of the committee on the budget has done an extraordinary job of defending the details of this budget .  he has been powerful and persuasive and intelligent and , i think , has made a compelling case .  the argument that we are going to make in the next hour has to do more with how this fits into the overall economic priorities of the united states .  this in my view is perhaps one of the most important reasons for passing this budget , because as we look at where america is today , as we look at the economic challenges we are facing , it is clear that we need to have a strong and responsible fiscal policy that encourages economic growth , that controls spending , and by controlling spending brings down our deficit over time , reassures capital markets and sends the message that the american economy there is no question , mr. chairman , that the challenges we are facing today are substantial , the deficit is a serious problem and the proposed remedy contained in this budget resolution involves some very strong medicine and , for many individual members of the house , some very , very difficult policy decisions .  we need to pass this resolution because the broad parameters of spending that are the real budget resolution , the blueprint that is the substance of this budget resolution is precisely the vehicle we need to move in the right direction to make sure that we control spending and create the opportunity to continue the economic expansion which is only now just beginning .  over the past few years , america has gone through a challenging time economically .  nowhere is that more evident than in my district , but at the same time there are very encouraging signs .  we know that we have been running a deficit .  we know we have been running a deficit because , first of all , understandably , we have been in the throes of a recession and we have never run a surplus during a recession .  second of all , we have never run a surplus in wartime .  and even as we have been undergoing a very difficult episode , a combination of a slowdown which began during the last administration coupled with the substantial damage to our economy that occurred in the wake of 9/11 , at the same time we have had to take on a war on terrorism that was not of our choosing .  the combination of these two factors , the loss of revenue because this budget resolution is precisely what we need .  we recognize that an uncontrolled deficit can put pressure on interest rates , increasing the cost of borrowing and putting the brakes on economic growth and investment .  without economic growth , we are not going to be able to generate the revenue to get back to a balanced budget .  we also recognize that a lax fiscal policy could further weaken the u.s. dollar in global markets and undermine its standing as the reserve currency of the world economic system .  this has been one of the core advantages that america has retained relative to our global competition .  that is why the decision we make with this budget is going to be so very , very important .  this budget is a blueprint for injecting spending restraint while encouraging economic growth and stability .  its adoption will signal to the financial markets that a fiscally conservative congress once more is prepared to sally forth to make difficult decisions necessary to control the federal deficit and maintain our economy on a growth path .  this budget vehicle provides fiscal discipline that will strengthen investor confidence in the renascent economy and act as a powerful tonic to continue on the path of economic growth .  it provides for controlling spending without raising taxes , which is precisely the formula that has worked for us and can continue to work for us .  mr. chairman , we recognize that we need to maintain a pro-growth tax policy .  that is essential to move america toward a balanced budget .  this budget resolution allows us to continue and make permanent the successful tax policies that have allowed us to grow the economy .  what it does in a nutshell is it cuts the deficit in half over a 5-year period .  perhaps more importantly , mr. chairman , it shrinks over time the national debt relative to the economy .  that is the burden on the national economy that the capital markets understand .  if we have a national debt that is growing relative to the economy , it will roil capital markets over time if it grows excessively .  but what matters to the economy is not the absolute size of the debt , it is the size of the debt relative to the economy .  if we can continue to grow the economy and grow the economy faster than the national debt , then that will be a source of confidence and a source of growth in the economy .  mr. chairman , that is precisely what this budget resolution does in a sound , responsible way .  it maintains a strong commitment to economic growth and pro-growth tax policy by controlling discretionary and mandatory spending .  mr. chairman , i will have further remarks in support of this resolution .  mr. chairman , i reserve the balance of my time .  mr. chairman , i reserve the balance of my time .  mr. chairman , i yield myself the balance of my time .  i am particularly grateful for the opportunity to be here to make this presentation as required under law by humphrey-hawkins because i think it is very important perhaps that the record be set straight .  any member of the house who is serious about controlling the deficit , about maintaining the forward movement in the economy , growing jobs , and the social justice that could only come through economic growth should be prepared to strongly support this budget resolution .  mr. chairman , a couple of points i think need to be made in response to the interesting presentations that were made on the other side .  first of all , on the issue of jobs .  we have heard the criticism that our friends on the other side of the aisle try to blame president bush for an economic slowdown that he inherited from the clinton administration that was exacerbated by 9/11 .  the truth is economic policies that have been adopted by this congress , working with the administration , have been successful in helping the u.s. economy rebound from the recession into a sustained expansion , with strong growth in the gross domestic product and payroll jobs .  despite all of the problems that this president inherited , the tax relief policies of the past 4 years that our friends on the other side of the aisle are striving to sabotage have helped to restore economic growth and job creation .  during 2004 , real gdp grew 4.4 percent , the strongest annual performance in 5 years , one of the strongest growth performances of the past 20 years , belying the glooming forecast we have heard on the other side .  private forecasters ' projections for real gdp growth for this year are being revised upward .  growth for 2005 is expected to be at a 3.7 percent robust rate .  more americans , mr. chairman , are working today than at anytime in our nation 's history , and employment is at a record level of more than 140 million .  the unemployment rate in february was 5.4 percent , lower than the averages for each of the last three decades .  payroll employment rose by 2.2 million jobs during 2004 .  it is up by more than 3 million jobs since may of 2003 .  last month , we saw employment gains of 262 , 000 jobs , more than a quarter of a million new jobs in the month of february alone .  this suggests that there is clearly forward motion in the economy .  mr. chairman , let us compare that to some of our trading partners .  those who last year invoked the great depression in describing recent economic conditions have been , after all , often favoring policies that would increase government intervention in the economy .  yet some of those countries where those sorts of policies are applied are not doing as well as we are .  economic growth in europe is generally slower than that of the united states .  the unemployment rate in europe is much higher than in the u.s. in january of 2005 , europe had an unemployment rate of 8.8 percent , substantially higher than our u.s. level of 5.4 percent .  the fact is , by following on a path of high growth and low taxes , we are moving the economy in the right direction , and ultimately , if we are prepared to put in place fiscal policies that restrain the deficit , that will allow us to grow the economy in the right direction .  i have heard a couple of extraordinary claims on the floor of the house that we are facing a record debt .  i suppose that is true if we look at this in a purely static , green eyeshade perspective , but what really matters with the national debt , as i said before , is its size relative to the economy .  the fact remains the national debt today is significantly lower , relative to the economy , than it was in the early 1990s when their party controlled congress and controlled the reins of spending .  we have heard about record deficits , but here again we propose in our budget resolution to cut the deficits in half relative to the size of the economy .  that will send the right message to global markets .  we have heard a little bit tonight about the trade deficit , and i must say that is something where i have some sympathy with the critics .  our trade deficit is much too high , but those who are making these claims tonight perhaps should be questioning whether they supported the clinton-era trade policies that this administration inherited and put us firmly on the path to large trade deficits .  we have also heard from the other side that they are concerned that there is not enough room in this budget to deal with the problem of the amt .  as cochairman of the zero amt caucus , i have to be sympathetic with their raising the issue , but the fact remains eliminating the amt is only going to be possible as part of fundamental tax reform .  this budget put lays in place , creates the groundwork for us to go forward later this year and take a look at fundamental tax reform .  we also , notwithstanding this budget , have every opportunity to move forward later this year and consider the issue of social security solvency .  i believe that the president is right to raise this issue .  anyone who has studied this issue carefully has to concede that for the long-term health of the social security system we have a choice of either going forward with a laissez-faire approach that has long been advocated on the other side and ultimately have to see truly draconian cuts as a result , or if we act now we can put in place reforms that will allow us to preserve existing benefits , also provide a solid retirement for the next generation and do so by improving the rate of return within the social security system .  nothing in this budget resolution is inconsistent with that initiative .  i am very , very pleased to address the concerns raised by the gentleman from new york about the supposed monolithic government in the congress that has worked with a republican administration to do some things that the gentleman finds distasteful .  the fact is our economic policies and our economic challenges today are at least partially the result of the gridlock that existed before the last election in which the senate was at least not able to move forward on key issues like a stimulus bill , like an energy bill , like tort reform , that directly speak to our economic health because of the gridlock implicit in the rules that gave the minority a veto over many of these provisions .  monolithic government is not the issue .  the issue here is whether we can move forward and get to a balanced budget ultimately .  our resolution clearly is the one strongest able to do that .  we continue to grow the economy without raising taxes , which clearly is the agenda on the other side , raising taxes that would slam the brakes on economic growth .  at the same time , it is obvious from the laundry list we have heard tonight if the other side were in the majority we would be contemplating a saturnalia of new spending .  i can think of a lot of things that i would love to spend money on in the federal budget , but the fact remains we need to set tough priorities if we are going to get back to a balanced budget .  our spending resolution does just that .  what we provide is low taxes , controlling federal spending and ultimately the prospect of falling deficits and low debt and ultimately the right economic direction for this country , a true blueprint for economic growth , expansion and opportunity .  with that , i urge all of my colleagues to support the republican budget resolution .  regardless of any concern about any particular program , we need to move forward with the broad outline of spending that this resolution fairly lays out and put it in place so that we are able to get to a balanced budget over time as we reassure capital markets that we are truly committed to controlling spending without raising taxes .  mr. chairman , i want to thank the gentleman from texas for helping put together this package and for all the work that he has done on behalf of the republican study committee and for all of my colleagues there that have worked so hard on this alternative budget .  i want to also commend the gentleman from iowa ( mr. nussle )  for the budget that is presented here .  it makes cuts of .7 percent in nondefense discretionary .  finally , we are actually doing what families would do when a large deficit looms in the future , though we need to do far more than that .  this budget would cut 2 percent .  when you look at what lies ahead , when you look at the unfunded liabilities that lie ahead , this is kid stuff .  we are going to have to do much , much more in the future .  if we are inching toward bankruptcy in social security , we are flat running toward it with medicare .  and when you look at the liabilities there , we added $ 7 trillion in unfunded liabilities with the medicare prescription drug bill , for example , that we are going to have to somehow deal with , that our kids and grandkids are going to have to somehow deal with .  we have got to get ahold of this deficit .  the problem is not tax cuts .  that is part of the solution .  we need more revenue coming in .  you do that by cutting taxes .  we have seen that time and time again .  the problem here is spending .  there is a culture of spending in this institution that is just difficult to stop .  this alternative budget makes some progress toward that end , but i again want to stress this is kid stuff compared to what we are going to have to do in the coming years to get a handle on this culture of spending .  i commend my colleagues for putting this forward .  i urge this house to support it .  mr. chairman , let me just read this statement .  it seems the washington post has some sympathy for this : `` the federal government is the largest landowner in washington .  since the land can not be taxed , the federal government is the principal contributor to the district 's chronic fiscal imbalance. '' now , if the federal government owns a lot of land in the district of columbia , believe me , arizona , utah , nevada , california , colorado , we ought to really be hurting , because the incidence of federal land is so much higher there .  the president had initially more than $ 200 million for federal land acquisition .  it has been cut by the chairman down to $ 43 million .  it is still too much , and particularly when pilt is underfunded .  mr. speaker , i too want to commend those who worked to get the earmarks out of the bill .  but i just wanted to point out that not all the earmarks are out of the bill .  in the bill , we have $ 1.25 million for the center for excellence in native hawaiian law at the university of hawaii , $ 1.2 million for the hawaiian department of education for school construction , $ 2 million to the mississippi band of choctaw indians for cultural and education funding , $ 5 million for america 's promise .  now these may well be good programs , but they should not be funded in this bill that says that all the earmarks are gone .  we also violated a house rule where we were naming two federal facilities after sitting members of congress .  the center for disease control headquarters is being renamed the arlen specter headquarters and emergency operations center .  we are renaming the communication center at the cfdc the thomas r. harkin global communications center .  we should not be doing this .  if we are getting rid of the earmarks , we ought to get rid of all of them .  madam chairman , i raise a point of order .  mr. chairman , i make a point of order against section 749 that begins on page 77 , line 1 , and ends on page 77 , line 16 , in that it violates house rule xxi , clause 2 , by changing existing law and inserting legislative language in an appropriation bill .  mr. speaker , i rise in support of the labor , health , human services and education bill and say i am very proud to serve on this committee .  it is an important committee that serves the needs of so many americans in their daily lives .  i want to say congratulations to and state my great admiration for chairman regula in these difficult times when he as the leader of this committee has had to make some very tough choices .  the previous speaker said shame on us .  i am not ashamed of this bill at all .  i am very proud of the work we are doing .  i am proud , for instance , of the $ 253 million increase to the national institutes of health funding medical research that can make such a difference to the health of americans and to the health of this nation , making us a healthy nation .  i am proud that we have doubled the funding for the national institutes of health while i have been on this committee .  i am proud of the funding for the community health centers which have been raised to $ 1.8 billion , serving the uninsured and the underinsured .  i have a community health center in my district .  it is a wonderful community partnership serving literally thousands of people that were not being served otherwise .  i am very proud of that funding , and i am very proud of community health centers and what they do .  i am also proud about the funding for liheap .  it is $ 115 million over the last year , serving the poorest citizens in our country , helping with heating their homes , and those are citizens that are going to have to get up every day and decide what bills they are going to pay .  i am proud of the work we have given them towards purchasing their prescription drugs .  this funding for liheap really makes a difference in their lives every single day .  i was a teacher before i left teaching and went into business , and then came to congress .  i have watched our math and science scores , how we worked so hard to bring those scores up so we can be competitive in the world .  now we have $ 184 million for a math and science partnership to strengthen our math and science education in k-12 .  this is something we have to do , and we have talked about it year after year after year to put that money where it is served best so we are not importing our scientists , we are growing and building our scientists .  this is a bill i am very proud of .  it is a difficult time , and the chairman has done a great job .  mr. speaker , i rise in support of this conference report funding the departments of labor , health , education , and other agencies .  while not a perfect bill , it is a good bill .  it represents another step in this year 's appropriation cycle for fiscal responsibility .  earlier this year , congress passed a budget .  it was a tough budget that reflected the difficult financial times we face .  it reined in spending on non-security activities for the first time in a generation .  this is not an easy task .  it is tough to cut the budget .  the conference report before us today $ 142.5 billion .  this is precisely the house-passed level , and nearly a half a billion dollars less than last year .  to arrive at this number , the conferees had to work hard to reduce the levels proposed by the other body that were $ 2.6 billion higher than the accounts in the house-passed bill .  the conference report before us today does not include emergency spending designations or funding gimmicks as proposed by the other body .  the bill before us is lean .  it prioritizes spending , contains some real cuts , and provides some resources for high priority programs .  the bill proposes to terminate 29 programs , including 20 of the 50 programs proposed for termination in the bill that originally passed in our chamber .  other programs proposed for termination by the house are cut substantially from last year 's level .  while reducing the overall size of the bill from last year , the house conferees were able to increase funding in critical area , such as pell grants , special education , and low income heating assistance and bioterrorism preparedness .  for community health centers , the final conference agreement provides $ 1.8 billion , $ 66 million more than last year .  the conference report includes $ 100 million for a teacher incentive fund that will be a pilot program helping reward teachers with the incentives to boost the quality of our education .  generally , the increases in the conference report are n't big enough for our democratic friends but they reflect our effort to do the best we could with the limited resources we had available .  i urge my colleagues to support the conference report .  mr. chairman , i yield myself as much time as i may consume .  mr. chairman , spending is out of control in the nation 's capital , and if we do not work to control this spending , we will leave our children and grandchildren a legacy of debt , a legacy of a lower standard of living , a legacy of more government , of less freedom , of less opportunity .  many people in this chamber have risen tonight to say that we are not spending enough money .  i think we should take a look at the facts .  number one , mr. chairman , we are now spending over $ 20 , 000 for american families .  for the first time since world war ii are we spending this much money .  for only the fourth time in the history of our nation , and if we look back just 10 years , almost every government agency has grown by a huge multiple overinflation .  international affairs is up 93 percent ; agriculture up 165 percent ; transportation , 78 percent ; education , 95 percent , and the list goes on and on and on .  we have been growing government at twice the rate of inflation and 50 percent faster than the family budget .  we believe that these growth rates are unsustainable and let us just not look at the past .  let us look at the future .  according to the congressional budget office , over the next decade social security is due to grow by 5.5 percent a year , medicaid by almost 8 percent a year and medicare by 9 percent a year .  we have an explosion of government spending , and yet many in this chamber want to spend even more , at the expense of american families .  where is this leading us ?  mr. chairman , most recently , the chairman of the federal reserve alan greenspan said , as a nation we may have already made promises to coming generations of retirees that we will be unable to fulfill .  according to the general accounting office , social security faces a serious and growing solvency and sustainability challenge that is growing as time passes .  according to the director of the office of management and budget , referring to social security , such chronic and growing obligations in the social security program are properly understood by the american public , including investors , as a sign that the program is out of balance and headed for bankruptcy .  according to the trustees of the social security and medicare trust funds , `` we do not believe the currently projected long run growth rates of social security and medicare are sustainable under current financing arrangements. '' the comptroller general of the general accountability office said , `` how this is resolved could effect not only our economic security but our national security .  we are headed to a future where we will have to either double federal taxes or cut federal spending by 50 percent. '' let me repeat that .  we are headed to a future where we will have to double federal taxes or cut federal spending by 50 percent .  mr. chairman , that is why it is so critical that today , not tomorrow , not next week , that we do something , something to begin to control spending in the united states congress .  first , i want to congratulate the gentleman from iowa ( chairman nussle ) of the committee on the budget for bringing forth to this body a truly historic budget , the most fiscally responsible budget we have seen since the reagan era , a budget that is serious about protecting the family budget from the federal budget .  but a combination of hope and fear has propelled me , on behalf of the republican study committee , to offer an alternative budget .  the hope is , as historic as the gentleman 's budget is , maybe given the seriousness of the challenge we have , maybe we can do just a little bit better on spending discipline .  my fear is , as great as the budget is that the gentleman from iowa ( chairman nussle ) has brought to this house , i want it to be a real budget .  i want to ensure that we have the mechanisms in place to ensure that we enforce the spending discipline .  how does this particular budget differ from the committee budget ?  there are a number of similarities , but let me describe a couple of differences .  whereas in the chairman 's budget we have a discretionary savings of a little less than 1 percent , this budget would achieve savings of roughly 2 percent .  it would further double the reconciliation savings in the nussle budget .  and finally , it includes a number of enforcement mechanisms to ensure that we can live with this budget , that the budget is something more than a suggestion , the budget is something more than a goal or an aspiration , that it is actually a limit on spending , that we draw a line in the sand and say we are going to take this much money away from american families and say this is it , we are going to live within our budgets .  mr. chairman , budgets tend to be about priorities ; and , indeed , this budget , the republican study committee budget , is about priorities .  we have a priority of saving social security , and we congratulate our president for bringing this issue to the american people .  i believe when the american people focus on social security , what they will realize is that government has been part of the problem .  they have raided the social security trust fund 59 times .  government took the money away from social security ; government should give the money back .  how does government give the money back ?  government can grow at a slower rate than it has in the past .  the second theme of this budget , the second priority of this budget , is we believe we have to protect the family budget from the federal budget .  is there really a compelling reason as families have to get around their kitchen table and have to make tough decisions that we in congress can not do the same thing ?  we do not believe that the federal budget should grow faster than the family budget , and this budget achieves that goal .  finally , we believe a budget ought to be a limit on spending .  we ought to decide , subject to emergency spending that we understand , that we ought to draw a line in the sand and say this is all we care to take away from the american people ; and when we tell the american people this is our budget , then this is the budget that we will live with .  mr. chairman , i reserve the balance of my time .  mr. chairman , growing government and putting us on a path to doubling taxes on the american people meets nobody 's definition of fiscal responsibility .  mr. chairman , i demand a recorded vote .  i thank the gentleman for yielding me this time .  mr. chairman , we have now come down to two budgets : one offered by the gentleman from iowa ( chairman nussle ) and the majority and the most fiscally responsible budget we have seen in quite some time here ; and another budget that wants to tax more and spend more , and that is their answer to the nation 's fiscal woes .  clearly , we agree that this nation has a deficit and a deficit that is too large .  but those on the other side of the aisle seem to act like spending has nothing to do with the equation in the deficit .  we have been spending money here at over twice the rate of inflation , 50 percent faster .  the federal budget has been growing 50 percent faster than the family budget .  we are on an unsustainable growth path on the growth of federal government .  we must do something to control the growth of federal government .  now , previous speakers , i believe , have used the term `` auto pilot , '' that this budget puts the nation on auto pilot .  well , let me tell you about the auto pilot that their budget puts this nation on .  that is an auto pilot that , if we do not do anything about spending , according to the general accounting office we are heading to a future where we will have to double federal taxes or cut federal spending by 50 percent .  well , they do not want to cut any federal spending .  so what that means is we are on auto pilot to double federal taxes on the american family .  now , frankly , on our side , we have done our part .  tax revenues are up .  we listened to the other side , and they talk about all the massive tax cuts .  well , i am sitting here , mr. chairman , and i have the latest reports out of the congressional budget office .  and guess what ?  we have cut marginal tax rates on the american family on small businesses .  and guess what ?  tax revenues have increased .  tax revenues are up .  people go out and they save more and they invest more and they start small businesses .  i was in jacksonville , texas , a small town in my district , not too long ago and visited with a small business there that does aluminum die casting .  prior to the bush tax relief package , they were getting ready because of competitive pressures to have to lay off two people .  but because of tax relief , they were able to modernize their plant and equipment , and instead of laying off two people , they hired three new people .  now , that is five people that could have been on welfare , five people that could have been on unemployment .  but instead , five people who represent part of that over two million new jobs that have been created in america , five people that are paying in taxes , as opposed to taking out .  and that is why we see that tax revenues have increased .  and so , frankly , tax relief has been part of the deficit solution .  and even if it were not , we are talking about a $ 2.6 trillion budget .  and if you look at the line item , tax relief is $ 17 billion .  now , if you do the math , that means that tax relief is less than 1 percent of this federal budget .  so even if it was not bringing in new revenues to the government , how could tax relief amount to all of this problem ?  the challenge has been on the spending side .  just look over the last 15 years : international affairs up 93 percent , agriculture up 165 percent , transportation 78 percent , education 95 percent .  and the list goes on and on and on .  now , often we get good things for our tax expenditures .  we can have student loans ; we can have kevlar vests for our soldiers .  but , unfortunately , quite often we do not get good things for our tax expenditures .  sometimes we get wheelchairs from medicare that cost five times as much as those of the va .  sometimes we get multimillion dollar studies of how college students decorate their dorms .  we are talking about reducing the growth rate of government .  and i can not believe , and no american family would ever believe , that you can not find seven-tenths of 1 percent , less than 1 percent , of waste or fraud or abuse or duplication .  american families would laugh at that .  and if we do not do this , mr. chairman , we are looking at this future , this auto pilot future that i believe is fiscally immoral , that will double taxes on our children and grandchildren .  we need a budget , not for the next election ; we need a budget for the next generation .  and that is why i so strongly support the committee budget , the gentleman from iowa ( chairman nussle 's ) budget , because it is that fiscally responsible budget for the next generation .  mr. chairman , i thank the chairman for yielding me this time .  as a member of the save our cities caucus , which is chaired by the gentleman from ohio ( mr. turner )  , i rise in strong support of full funding of the community development block grant and community services block grant .  our cities are hardest hit by the tough social problems of this age : poverty , drug abuse , underachievement .  and i am proud that republicans have long understood that the federal government has a responsibility to support our cities .  they are the life blood of our commerce , but locally controlled federal dollars are far more powerful than arbitrary federal programs .  it is extremely important that we fully fund these critical programs because they preserve the local power of local governments to fix holes in the safety net , to assure the services that people need .  in new britain , my hometown ; in meridien or danbury , connecticut ; or in waterbury , the largest city in my district , community development block grant funds and community service block grant funds leverage several times their value to provide child care , elder care , literacy programs , substance abuse treatment programs , after-school programs .  they help those cities demolish buildings that are a blight or that harbor drug dealers .  they help clean up brownfields .  they improve fire stations .  they improve parks .  they rebuild sidewalks .  they reconstruct streets .  they work to make our cities able to attract the economic development that provides jobs and a healthy urban environment .  so between the community development block grant and the community services block grant , the federal government has traditionally contributed , and under republican leadership , generously , to assure the safety net in the cities and the economic strength of our urban communities .  so i thank the gentleman from iowa ( mr. nussle )  for recognizing , as the majority of republicans do , the importance of these flexible block grant programs to our urban communities .  madam chairman , i move to strike the last word .  madam chairman , as someone who enjoys recreational activities like fishing , boating and hunting and represents thousands of minnesotans who do as well , i share a special responsibility to make sure that these opportunities are available for generations to come .  today , many of those activities are threatened by the spread of aquatic invasive species .  we have seen a rapid growth of invasive species in recent years , from the great lakes , to our coastal waters , to local lakes and streams throughout the country .  in my home state of minnesota , we have increasingly been challenged to find ways to prevent and control disruptive species like european and asian carp .  in many areas , invasive european carp have found their way into minnesota 's wetlands and lakes , while asian carp has found its way into the mississippi river as far north as iowa .  if not properly addressed , both of these species threaten to disrupt the ecosystem that many minnesotans enjoy for fishing and boating .  one of the few ways in which federal , state and local governments collectively combat the threat of aquatic invasive species is through the state aquatic nuisance species management plans .  these plans identify activities to eliminate or reduce the environmental , public health and safety risks associated with aquatic invasive species .  these activities are implemented by states through feasible , cost-effective management policies undertaken in an environmentally sound manner .  these plans are available to both individual states and affected multi-state regions .  in fact , currently 14 states have approved plans , and at least 11 other states have plans under development .  unfortunately , the resources available to effectively implement these plans fall well short of the mark .  this is the third year in a row plans to attack invasive species are funded at slightly over $ 1 million .  i very much appreciate the work of the chairman and the committee to try to address this very important issue but would suggest that these limited funds are not enough to counteract the billions of dollars in costs associated with invasive species habitat destruction and lost recreational opportunities .  simply put , we must invest more in these plans if we hope to control the spread of these aquatic pests .  i appreciate the chairman 's offering to work with me .  madam chairman , reclaiming my time , i would like to thank the chairman for his commitment and look forward to working with him to have more resources for this vitally important need in the conference report .  madam chairman , i thank the chairman for yielding this time to have an opportunity to address an issue that is so important to this country , and that issue is the energy that drives this economy .  we all know that everything that we purchase in this country has got an energy cost component in it ; and so when we address the energy issues , we know that when we can provide more supply of energy , whether it comes from someplace else on the globe , whether it comes from the northern hemisphere , whether it comes from the united states , whether it is renewable energy or whether it is a consumable energy , that is at least in theory not renewed , all of those things add to the overall size of the energy pie .  it is our responsibility here in this congress to be able to expand the size of that pie so we have more energy available to the consumers ; and we know that due to the law of supply and demand , the more supply there is , of course the less relative demand there will be .  the relative costs of energy will either be slowed in their increase or actually diminished in some cases , and we can see reductions in the price of energy .  it is critical to me , in the part of the state i come from .  we are very vulnerable to energy .  we use gas and diesel fuel for the production of agriculture , for example , and we also produce ethanol and biodiesel .  so we are a renewable energy export center , as well as a consumer of energy .  i have watched this policy here in the united states , and we tend to take sides a little bit .  that taking sides falls into a few categories : energy consumers who want all the energy they can get , as cheap as they can get it ; and environmentalist interests that want to be able to preserve the pristine areas of america at whatever cost to the economy .  i would take the stand that natural gas in this country , for example , we have a huge domestic supply of natural gas in the north american continent underneath nonnational park public lands .  we have a tremendous supply of natural gas offshore in the outer continental shelf , gulf of mexico , and a lot of that is , as we stand here , off limits to producers .  that has driven up the cost of natural gas in my district and all across this country and put an additional price on virtually everything that we sell and purchase .  mr. speaker , i want to say back during the spring we went through our annual budget process .  the budget committee has testimony from all sectors of society and the government who are affected by the budget .  it is a good debate .  in the final analysis , that budget came to the floor and after weeks and months of discussion and arm twisting , it passed by a vote of 214-212 .  i may be wrong on this , i do not think any of the democrats voted for it .  most of the democrats , i would say , are very consistent saying we should be spending more money and , therefore , they voted against it .  but there are other democrats who are saying look at the deficit , look at this , look at that .  boy , these republicans are spending too much .  there is clearly a mixed signal here , and clearly some dissension in the democratic ranks .  but when you pass a budget in the spring and it is passed by this body and the other body , then the subcommittees of appropriations have to follow that budget .  that is what this does .  sometimes making these decisions is very , very tough .  this bill actually eliminates 29 lower-priority programs .  one of the programs i am a supporter of , the national youth sports program , i like that program .  they operated in savannah .  but when you look at the context of some of the other programs and you realize this is run by the ncaa , the national collegiate athletic association , and they are the same people who put on the rose bowl , the rose bowl alone generates $ 30 million in revenue .  perhaps they can replace the $ 18 million that congress is putting into it right now .  there are ways to keep these programs alive even though the federal government is not picking up the tab for them .  it is my hope on these 29 programs that are terminated , that the local , the state level will step in , the private sector will step in ; and a lot of what they are doing are duplicated in other programs .  i have to say that these are very important .  i have to say also , mr. speaker , that i had a lot of local programs that were eliminated .  these are programs which i have worked very hard on over the years to try to get into this budget .  those were the earmarks : memorial hospital in savannah , georgia ; st .  joseph 's hospital in savannah , georgia ; a project for the city of moultrie ; the warner robbins aviation museum ; the civil rights museum in savannah , georgia ; and brunswick hospital .  these were a lot of good programs that i personally hoped to get in , things that were within the budget that were doable .  and yet in the end because of the legislative process , all earmarks had to be eliminated .  i was not happy about that , but i understand .  in the bigger picture of things , you have to do what the body can pass , what there are votes for .  in this case , where did the money go ?  it went to community health clinics .  it goes to medicare modernization and medical research .  incidentally , we talk about the nih .  the funding for the nih has doubled under republican leadership under a commitment made by the former speaker , mr. gingrich .  i have to say , i am a little disappointed in what we have gotten for our money .  i have not seen a plethora of medical solutions and new devices and vaccines and all kinds of other research that i had hoped doubling the nih budget would give us .  nonetheless , nih still gets an increase under this bill .  the bill also restores community service block grants .  lots of things like the job corps program are funded in this bill .  despite its tightness in some areas , mr. regula  has worked with the committee to put on what i think is a solidly balanced bill and face the economic realities of today with today 's budget .  mr. chairman , democracy is sweeping the world and we should be proud that our country has become the greatest force for dignity of men and women in history .  but if you look back at history , at past democracies , you will see that many collapsed because they voted by majority to go into debt .  athenians and the french republics , the budding democracies in latin america , all collapsed in debt , which led to dictatorship .  but that should never happen here .  this is a hard line budget , because the threat to freedom is also overspending , debt and instability .  in america , the federal government made a basic promise in the 19th century to provide for the common defense .  in an age including the war on terror , this promise to defend america is very expensive .  it is expensive to send armies to afghanistan or to stand watch across the demilitarized zone in korea .  but we must do this , and we must fully support americans in uniform .  in the 20th century , the federal government made a second promise , to ensure retirement security for americans who worked hard and played by the rules .  the social security and medicare programs face real challenges as the baby-boom generation retires .  we are now expecting the number of people under social security and medicare to rise from 40 million to 90 million .  social security recipients used to live , when roosevelt created the program , an average of only 11 months , but now people are on social security on average 22 years .  so the size of meeting the retirement security promise is extremely large , in fact beyond the current means of this government .  we are commanded to be fiscal conservatives to meet the needs of our common defense and the 20th century 's promise of retirement security .  we can not start new programs , because we should honor these promises first .  some say we should borrow more , but we already borrow too much and we have seen past democracies drown in debt .  some would like us to raise taxes , killing economic growth , but we can not kill economic growth .  our growing economy right now is already yielding more tax revenue to meet the nation 's needs , but for the foreseeable future those new dollars should be used to support americans in uniform and to already honor the retirement security promises that the federal government has made .  our chairman has done a good job , a budget that stands for restraint , that continues the course of a free people being free , that grows our economy .  we could say yes to everyone .  we could say yes , and then we would be much more popular in the short run .  but in the long run there would be more debt , a smaller economy , a smaller future for our children .  i am for less debt , rather than more .  i am for more economic growth , rather than less .  i am for honoring the basic promises the federal government has made to provide for the common defense and the retirement security of older americans .  that should not be done on borrowed money , on borrowed time .  it should be done with a growing economy .  it is under this restraint , with this discipline , that this budget comes before the house , and we should honor that work .  madam chairman , first of all i want to thank the gentleman from texas ( chairman bonilla ) for doing such a great job on this bill and for his hard work leading the subcommittee through a very difficult , tight allocation and really coming out with an excellent bill , and also the gentlewoman from connecticut ( ms. delauro )  , such a great ranking member and true professional .  i appreciate that very much .  i also want to express my appreciation to the extremely professional staff that we have on the subcommittee .  it really makes our job so much easier .  like i mentioned , this was a difficult bill with a tight allocation , and i think we have a very good product in the end here because of that .  i especially want to point out something i think is very important to all livestock producers , anyone concerned about food safety , which is the final $ 58.8 million going to national animal disease center at ames , iowa .  this is the last of the $ 462 million that we have appropriated since the year 2000 for this extraordinarily important facility .  i hope this year that the senate will concur and get their number so we do not have to revisit this issue again next year with the appropriation bill .  i am very pleased that the bill includes funding for renewable energy .  obviously , this is very important for iowa and our country as far as soy diesel , ethanol , biomass , all of those things that are critically important long term as far as gaining energy independence for the united states , but also doing it in a renewable way that is environmentally friendly .  this is extraordinarily important ; and because of the work we have done here , we are able to finally experience true value-added agriculture for our farmers at home , so they are able to reap the profits from renewable energy .  i am very pleased that the chairman has included funding to fight the potential problem and the very real potential problem of soybean rust that has gotten into our country , which could be absolutely devastating to a tremendous crop throughout this country , iowa and the midwest in particular .  i am very pleased also that the bill includes funding for continued work as far as the animal id system that we are trying to get in place so that we can in fact find when we have an outbreak of , say , mad cow disease , something like that , that we are able to identify where that animal came from and that we can ensure the food safety .  one issue that was of some controversy through the hearings was continued funding under the hatch act for agricultural research .  i believe that by continuing the funding of the hatch act and getting the dollars to the universities where they absolutely are needed , the hatch act funding will allow continued vital research at our land grant universities and allow them to continue the great job that they do for agriculture , for our farmers today to ensure that the breakthroughs of the future will be in the hands of the farmers and for their benefit .  also we have to make sure , and this bill does it , that we have a continuing , strong risk management crop insurance program .  we all have concerns about how it has been administered , and we wanted to make sure that the agency reports to us on a quarterly basis so that we can in fact make sure that that vital program stays in place .  again , in closing , i just want to say thank you once again to the chairman and the ranking member and all the committee staff .  this is a tough year , and it is a great bill .  i encourage all of my colleagues here in the house to support this bill .  mr. chairman , i reserve the balance of my time .  mr. chairman , i continue to reserve my time .  mr. chairman , i very much appreciate my chairman yielding me time .  i really come today to express my very sincere and deep appreciation to both the gentleman from iowa ( mr. nussle )  and the gentleman from south carolina ( mr. spratt )  for the fabulous job they do of working together on behalf of all of us to try to make sense out of our budget process .  to say the least , the world on both sides of the aisle and across the country would love to suggest that we provide for them every program at a maximum level that they might have on their wish list .  and in turn , that same world wants us to make sense out of balancing our budget .  these gentlemen are faced with that horrendous and impossible task , and to them we owe a great debt of gratitude .  as the gentleman from iowa ( mr. nussle )  suggested , i have now the responsibility of chairing the committee on appropriations where , as they help us struggle with the budget , we spend money that has a propensity to violate that which is their guidelines for sensible budgeting .  but in turn , over the years as i have observed this process there has been far too little communication , that is meaningful communication , between those on the staff level but also the professional level within the committee itself , between the appropriations process and the budgeteers .  i must say that in the time i have had this job , the short time , the gentleman from iowa ( mr. nussle )  has gone out of his way to say time and time again , we want to work with you .  i have committed myself to trying to have the committee on appropriations once again be a committee designed to preserve dollars , not just spend dollars ; and , indeed , if we are successful in that effort , we will be in partnership with our budgeteers , attempting to make sense out of the budget and eventually balance that budget .  we are not in this alone .  and the issues that flow around stabilizing our economy know nothing about partisan politics .  and i must say that the committee on the budget has provided guidelines ; in the past we have not always followed those guidelines .  it is my intention to work as partners in this business so we can all be successful .  and i can say without any reservation , if we are successful , moving our bills this year very rapidly so they are ready for conference in the early spring , it will be in no small part a success of the work you all have done .  i appreciate that very much and look forward to continuing this relationship .  mr. chairman , i thank the gentleman for yielding me this time .  we hear a lot of conversation today here on the floor about national security and not depending upon foreign sources of oil and gas .  let me just say that this particular issue is in fact a national security issue .  most of the focus we hear , obviously , is on the potential environmental impacts and impacts on tourism and all of the environmental things we enjoy along our coasts in florida and in california .  but let me just say that the biggest impact that could happen with oil and natural gas , drilling or exploration in the eastern gulf of mexico is a potential to harm our ability to test and evaluate all of the air force weaponry that is used around the globe .  in fact , let me read a quote to you .  `` wilbert patterson , brigadier general , united states air force , june of 2000 .  we are deeply concerned over the construction of any oil or gas structures that could impact on our critical test programs performed by the air armament center at eglin air force base. '' this is an issue of national security .  we have to be able to test in the gulf ranges and this drilling will harm that testing .  mr. chairman , i was unable to be present for rollcall vote no .  86 , on the motion that the committee rise .  had i been present , i would have voted `` no '' on rollcall vote no .  86 .  mr. chairman , i yield myself 30 seconds .  just to punctuate what the gentleman from ohio and the gentlewoman from connecticut said , we believe in local control ; and we want to be partners with these communities in solving problems .  we disagreed with the president in his budget with the changes that were made to the community development block grant ; so we made that value judgment and change in this budget .  we are supporting our mayors .  we are supporting our communities .  we want to be good partners , and we believe in local control in solving those problems .  the big federal government can not solve all these problems that these local folks are dealing with .  we want to give them the opportunity to do that .  mr. chairman , i reserve the balance of my time .  mr. chairman , i reserve the balance of my time .  mr. chairman , i yield myself 5 minutes .  first let me compliment my friend from texas ( mr. cuellar )  , a new member of the committee .  i appreciate his service .  we have worked together on a number of issues .  but let me give a slightly different tack from what he was suggesting with regard to our record on education because i think it is important for us to see what has come before .  first , with regard to education totals , as you can see , we have grown on an average of 9 percent a year for the last 5 years .  there are not many programs around washington that have grown that fast .  homeland security is the only other department that has grown at that rate .  nine percent .  this is the total we have spent for education .  again , is it enough ?  you might say no .  could we always spend more ?  of course .  but i want to put it in perspective .  nine percent annual growth over the last 5 years .  title i , the main program that affects no child left behind , has grown 10 percent per year since 2000 and was funded at $ 12 billion for fiscal year 2005 .  that annual growth , again , every year has gone up .  pell grants has grown 10 percent per year since 2000 and $ 12.4 billion in this fiscal year .  no child left behind has grown at 40 percent under president bush .  i understand there will always be this debate that programs are authorized at one level and then they are appropriated at yet another level .  everyone around here knows this , but it is a game that we play with our constituents .  there is almost no program that is funded at its authorized level .  that is not a floor .  it is a ceiling .  that is always the way it has been approached in congress .  special education , a program that i feel a personal affinity toward and it was a personal goal and leadership that i took with regard to special education to our states and to our schools and to our classrooms and for our kids with special needs , i am proud of what we have done .  these green charts do not mean anything compared to what it has meant in the lives of the kids that are receiving a quality education and it has unlocked opportunity for them that is boundless .  that is because we have invested some resources there .  i just want to end with this .  it is not only about the money .  we come down here with these green bar charts as if to say , if i spend this much it means that i do n't care and if i spend this much it means that i care a little more , or here i am caring a little bit more now .  watch out , here i am caring some more .  it is getting higher .  i am caring even more .  and the more we spend , the more we care .  and the more we invest , the more we care .  and we measure by green charts the compassion , the caring , the value , as if money alone is the only measure .  i have got to tell my colleagues something .  take special education .  go talk to any one of their teachers back home in the special education classroom and ask them whether they have seen these increases in their classrooms .  do the members know what is going on , mr. chairman ?  the states are taking that money , and it is not getting through their bureaucracy .  we are getting this money out of washington , but it is not getting to the classroom teacher teaching our child .  so their chart may look a little bit bigger ; our chart may look a little bit bigger , and our charts look great , and if i care at $ 5 and they care at $ 6 , maybe they care $ 1 more , and we get into all of this .  and we are not looking at the results .  we need to look at the results of these programs and find out whether they are getting to the kids in the classrooms .  and i have got to tell my colleagues right now it is not .  so we have got to provide the oversight .  it can not just be about the money .  and that is the last chart i want to show .  for all of the chest beating about education and the priority , see that little red line of the total amount spent on education in our country ?  that is what the federal government kicks in .  we are talking , on any given day , like about 6 percent .  the people who are really doing the work here are our local school boards , our local state legislators , our local parents and community leaders .  they are kicking in all this amount right here .  that is what is being kicked in .  it is this little red part that we all of a sudden think is so important and that we beat our chests about .  the federal government is not going to solve education , mr. chairman .  not with a big red line or a little red line or with this money or that amount of money .  it is not about the money .  it is about results .  we have got to focus on results in education , and this budget accomplishes that .  mr. chairman , i yield myself such time as i may consume .  mr. chairman , reclaiming my time , the answer is yes to start with .  first and foremost , i appreciate her leadership and concern about the research programs that we have for nasa .  she does an excellent job there , and we really appreciate the leadership she takes in that .  the gentlewoman knows that the resolution , while it tracks the president 's overall number , it does not make any specific decisions about the different funding levels that we have in some of these major categories .  it goes actually back to what the gentleman was saying on education .  we can not find in the budget any of what the gentleman from wisconsin just talked about in education .  it is a great speech , but we can not find it in the budget .  and the same is true with so much of this .  so the committee on appropriations is the one that is going to make these determinations .  the same is true for nasa .  and we appreciate that her advocacy and mine is going to have to be brought to bear as we work on that .  so that being the case , i do commit to the gentlewoman to bring back from the conference language clarifying that the budget does not make these specific assumptions regarding the president 's proposed level for these programs and urging that the levels for nasa should be reassessed .  there is no question that r & amp ; d is important , and i know the appropriators agree with that .  i know the gentlewoman from virginia agrees with that .  i agree with that , and i have no doubt that they will bring back a bill with that in mind .  mr. chairman , i reserve the balance of my time .  mr. chairman , i yield myself 1 minute .  in response to my friend from massachusetts , he is right and i agree with him .  let us get that in the record right now .  there are those moments in time .  in fact , he was not here for our colloquy earlier ; so let me just report to him .  i am sure i am not going to get his vote , but i will report to him anyway .  we agree with the local control aspects of cdbg .  there are so many on our side , including myself and so many others , who agree that this is local control , local decision-making , getting this back to communities .  in the budget that we have , we did not take the president 's assumption with regard to cdbg .  we do not necessarily foreclose the ability to look at the program and make improvements .  but we plussed-up the function for cdbg by $ 1.1 billion , and we increased it for that purpose ; and we also did not make any assumption with regard to the president 's new proposal of the strengthening america 's communities block grant or transferring the program from hud , housing and urban development , to the committee on energy and commerce .  the bottom line is there are many things that we will disagree with on budgets , and like i said , i doubt i am going to get the gentleman 's vote , but i do think we have a bipartisan commitment to this .  it is one area that i know we will continue to work on .  and there may be other disagreements , but this is an area that we have worked on together .  i commend the gentleman for his leadership , and we are providing that leadership as well .  and we hope the president can come forward with a little better rationale as to why this program , in particular , needed the changes that he proposed in his budget .  if there are reforms that are needed , then let us reform the program .  we will work together .  if there are bad apples spoiling it for the rest of the bunch , then let us get rid of those bad apples .  let us figure that out .  but let us not throw the baby out with the bath water .  i agree with the gentleman .  mr. chairman , i reserve the balance of my time .  mr. chairman , i yield myself such time as i may consume to just respond and say it is fascinating .  it is fascinating how we got into this situation .  and if you heard the gentleman who just spoke , if you wondered whether or not he maybe had been reading the newspaper and may be forgetting all of the things that have been happening to our country over the last going on 4 years , you might wonder if anyone has been paying attention , because he is correct .  on september 10 , 2001 , we were running a surplus .  there is no question that that was a good thing , something was very positive about that .  but , unfortunately , we learned the very next morning that we had a homeland security deficit , that we had a national defense deficit .  our economy was already in a recession , and we found out we had an economic growth deficit .  so even though there was more cash in the federal treasury than we were using , and you can call that a surplus , that did not mean we were meeting the needs of our country .  there were many other challenges that we had to meet , and that next morning we found out .  and all of the votes , all of the spending votes , i will go back to the record , all of the spending votes that the gentleman was just talking about under our management , the gentleman from illinois voted for ; voting for our troops , voting for homeland security , voting for education .  i will go back to each one of those appropriations bills and the gentleman from illinois voted for each one of those .  the only one he does not like , if you take away all of the clutter , is he wants to increase taxes .  he did not like that part .  but all of the spending he voted for .  so , let us just boil it down : there are people who want to increase taxes , and that is fine , and there are people who want to control spending , and that is also fine .  but it is not all of this mismanagement .  people say republicans did all of this mismanagement .  i think osama bin laden had a lot more to do with where we are today with the deficit than anybody else , than anybody else .  mr. chairman , the purpose of me taking this time was just to remind everybody that it was not just republicans that were here voting for those things , and there were probably a lot of reasons why we got into this situation that had nothing to do with jim nussle or the gentleman from illinois ( mr. emanuel )  .  it probably had more to do with osama bin laden than just about anybody else .  mr. chairman , before the gentleman yields time , if i might yield 5 minutes to a member , and then i would also be willing to contribute a little bit of time to the debate here .  mr. chairman , i yield myself as much time as i may consume to just respond gently , firmly in some respects to some of the characterizations i disagree with of the budget that i am presenting and the republicans are presenting .  i definitely respect the congressional black caucus in their effort to put together a budget .  i admire anybody who tries to go through this process and comes out of the other end with an actual work product that they can come to the floor to defend .  so , as a result of that , i am pleased to yield time so that they can present that budget .  mr. chairman , i yield myself the balance of my time .  mr. chairman , first let me say to the gentleman from south carolina ( mr. spratt )  , there is absolutely no one on the democratic side that i admire more than the gentleman and the partnership we have in working on these budgets .  this is the culmination when we come to the floor and have these debates , and i really respect the way he handled the debate .  we appreciate that .  we disagree how we are going to accomplish the goals that our nation needs to set , but we know the goals are pretty important .  we have to keep the country strong .  there is no question about that .  it is really nonnegotiable .  there is not a constituent i talk to that would suggest at this point in time in our history we do not want to protect the country .  our borders , everything from terrorism to illegals and drugs and all sorts of things coming into the country , we have to protect the country , number one .  number two , we have to make sure that the economy keeps growing .  that should not be an item up for negotiation .  it is so important that families have the resources to deal with the challenges that they face every single day .  we come out here and talk about other people 's money very easily on the floor of the house , what the taxpayers send us in order to solve problems ; but we really do need to be mindful of the fact that the most important budget that we ought to be focused on is the budget decided and discussed and sweated over and argued about around kitchen tables across the country .  that is such an important budget .  we worry about education here , but parents do that every night after their kids go to bed .  we worry about health care here , but seniors do that every night when they are laying in a bed in a nursing home .  we worry about creating jobs , but small business people do that every night in the quiet of their closed shop .  they try and make sure their cash register all added up .  it is funny , i have heard people say we should not worry about the error rate in the food stamp program , which is now 6 percent .  mr. chairman , 6 cents on every dollar in this country in food stamps is wasted .  we say that is an improvement because it is down from 19 percent .  the interesting and fascinating thing about that is if a small business person ended the night , closed that shop door and turned the open sign around to closed and rang up the cash register and they were missing six pennies , they would stay all night to find it , all night long to find those six pennies that did not add up in their cash register .  but we say , oh , that is an improvement .  amazing .  it really is amazing .  that is what i turn to first .  this is the record of federal government spending over the last 10 years .  in these numbers is what i was talking about , the concern of education , the concern of homeland security , the concern of national defense , the concern of job training , the concern of our environment , the concern of transportation , the concern of research and development .  all of the concerns that we have talked about are embodied in numbers because in washington we define compassion from one year to the next , solutions from one year to the next of spending more .  we have all seen that .  if i spend just a little bit more from one year to the next year , i must care , i must be solving problems , i must be dealing with real solutions .  if i just spend a little bit more money , i will solve all of the problems in the country .  every problem that every family ever addressed around their kitchen table can be solved with just a little bit more washington spending .  that is the fallacy of what we are debating tonight , and that is that if we believe , truly believe that all we have to do is take more money to washington in the form of taxes and define and design and develop just one or two more programs that hires a number of more bureaucrats , that builds maybe a few more office buildings to be filled with those bureaucrats , it spends more money , it increases taxes , and it purports to solve problems .  unfortunately , we are not solving those problems by doing that .  my favorite saying that i heard on the floor , and i do not remember who said it , a long time ago , if you always do what you always did , you will always get what you always got .  if members think about it , we have been trying to solve problems in washington with more spending for quite some time now , and those problems do not seem to go away .  last year we decided to put the brakes on spending .  we said yes , we have had the excuse of september 11 , of the war on terror , of needing to deal with homeland security and needing to deal with our economy ; but it is time to be done with all of that .  and so what we did was we said let us put the brakes on spending just a little bit .  what happened ?  when the economy grows and when we control spending , just like the republican budgets in the late 1990s when we got back to balance , and president clinton can take credit for anything he wants , that is fine .  but everyone who has studied government knows that the buck stops here when it comes to spending .  when it comes to fiscal responsibility and article i of the constitution , we are the ones in charge of the budget .  members know that .  as a result , last year with fiscal discipline and a growing economy , we were able to reduce the deficit 20 percent in 1 year .  that is good news , but we need to build on that .  what our budget does is it says , let us continue to build on that success every year with more and more deficit reduction .  that is what we accomplish with the spending discipline within this budget .  we say not only should we hold the line on discretionary spending , that is the spending we will argue about every day out here during the appropriations process .  we want to actually reduce some spending there .  we want to have the first reduction in non-security spending since ronald reagan was in town back in 1980 .  that is good news .  we also know that we have to start tackling what we call the mandatory spending , or the automatic spending .  and so we accomplish that because we know that mandatory spending , that is this yellow part , the part here that back in 1995 was half the budget and now is more than half the budget and is growing to even more than half the budget , almost two-thirds of the budget if we do not start controlling our spending in these accounts .  i want to give you an example of what we would have to do .  as much as there will be all sorts of discussion today , and there has been , and tomorrow about medicaid , you can not find the word medicaid in the budget .  the reason is because what we do is we say the committees of jurisdiction , in this instance the committee on energy and commerce , should be given responsibility to look through the programs and see if they can not only find savings but reform the program , to do a better job of delivering the product to the people who need it .  if it is true that people sit up at night worrying about how they are going to pay their bills , how they are going to meet their health care needs , then let us help them figure that out .  but let us not continue to do a program that every single governor would admit is unsustainable .  we have got quotes from here to the end of the day from governors who have written us that have said , this program can not continue .  it can not continue .  all right .  so what do we have ?  we have one budget on the democratic side .  we actually , i think , will have two or three budgets on the democratic side that do nothing with regard to medicaid .  no reforms .  no changes .  let us continue to always do what we have always done , and that is continue what has been what some people say is fraudulent transfers that are going on at the state level , where governors and state legislators are put in a position where they actually have to figure out how to game the system , how to manipulate the system so that they can get more money from the federal government .  i have heard of situations that colleagues of mine have told me from around the country where we actually have a situation where kids , teenagers who are eligible for foster care , good kids , good teenagers , that are difficult to find families for so that they can integrate and become part of a family again , but the state , a couple of states in particular , what they have done is they have devised a way to lock those kids into i realize if you measure your compassion from one year to the next with spending , i cared at $ 92 billion this year .  oops , there i went and i cared a little bit more that year .  then i cared at $ 101 billion .  then i really cared at $ 108 billion .  boy , my caring and compassion is going up .  that is not how we should measure it .  we should measure it on results .  are these programs working ?  are they helping families ?  are they helping kids ?  are they helping communities ?  are they solving the problem that medicaid ought to be solving for people with long-term health care concerns , people with disabilities , people who require indigent care ?  that is what we ought to be asking .  what do we do in this budget ?  we say , commerce committee , go to work .  invite the governors to come to washington to give us their proposal .  the gentleman from south carolina ( mr. spratt )  and i sat in a room with governors where they said , `` do n't arbitrarily let the number drive the policy. '' that is exactly right .  the number should not drive policy .  this number should not drive policy any more than it ought to determine compassion .  but there is only one way to get the governors to come back to washington .  they were here the first time .  the only way to get them back the second time is to have a process that requires reform and that is exactly what this budget does .  it says , by september , we want you to come back with ideas for reform .  just as a result of this , they have committed to come back by june with a reform proposal that the what does the so-called reduction in growth look like ?  we have heard all the complaints on the floor today .  one would think we were just eliminating the medicaid program .  i want to show you the chart of what this looks like after we are all done .  this is what the governors would complain about .  this is what some of the advocates are complaining about .  in other words , we are asking for just a little sliver , just slow down the growth .  but it is growing every year .  every year it grows .  we are just asking for a little bit of change , just a little bit of reform , make the program work better , less it help seniors , let it help people with disabilities , make sure it is solving the problem for families that do not have the resources to meet their health care needs .  let us also instill some personal responsibility .  i understand that between today and tomorrow we have got a big decision to make .  the decision as it boils down to me is very simple .  if you believe that taxing a little bit more , taking a little bit more out to washington from all of these hardworking families across the country and hiring more bureaucrats and inventing more programs and trying to solve more of these problems from washington , if you believe that is the solution , you need to vote for the spratt budget .  you need to vote for the democrat alternative budget because that is what it does .  it says increase taxes , increase spending and you will begin to solve these problems .  but there is an alternative and it is the majority .  what the majority is saying , stop the madness .  it is the spending .  we have got to get the spending under control .  we know the other body left to their own devices may not do it on their own .  we have already seen in a kind of a disappointing way that they have not really stepped up the way the president has and how we believe the way i have .  in closing , let me just say that we will be able to give , i believe , our kids and our grandkids the opportunity of a debt-free world if we begin with a small step again this year .  i ask members to support the majority budget .  mr. chairman , i claim the time in opposition , and i ask unanimous consent that the gentleman from south carolina ( mr. spratt )  be permitted to control 10 minutes , or half of the time in opposition .  mr. chairman , i yield myself such time as i may consume .  i will vote against this budget , and let me say why .  it is because of my responsibility and duty to protect the base bill , the base resolution , the product that was worked and crafted in a very genuine way through the committee process , one that has the support of our majority , one that has the support of our leadership , one that has the support of our chairman , and one that i dare say has , and i believe has , the support of my friends who bring forth the budget resolution tonight .  as i said before when the congressional black caucus came forth , anyone who has the guts to come out here with their own budget i have to applaud .  i may oppose it , but i have to applaud it because i know what it takes to put together a budget .  whether the alternative budget has one person who supports it or 80 members or 218 members to support it , i commend the coalition for coming forth with their budget .  i said the same to the congressional black caucus because they have done this in a very responsible way every year i have been in congress and for many year before .  i really mean that .  anyone who is willing to put the sweat equity into it gets my admiration .  i reluctantly oppose this alternative because if given the opportunity to have a perfect world could we , should we work for more spending control ?  yes , there is no question .  for all of the haranguing that happens out here about the cuts , we know there are a lot more weeds in the garden we could pull ; we know there is more reform that we could drive .  we know we could work harder and probably find more spending to control .  we have some practicalities , however .  one is we have some committees that have to do the work of achieving those reforms .  i have worked with each one of those committees and the committee chairmen to arrange the agreements which bring the base resolution here today ; and i respect that process , and i will support that process .  in addition , we have a president who is for really i think the first time since i have been in congress willing to step up during a very challenging time in our nation 's history when we are at war and say even though it would be easy to use the war as an excuse and not worry about what is happening on the domestic side , the president of the united states has said we are going to control spending , work on the entitlement programs , and try to reform the programs and to meet the needs out there .  the fact that the rsc comes forward with a budget that goes a little further , as i say , i respect that ; but i do not think that we are going to get the support behind it that we need in order to get it done .  at the end of the day , that is what we need .  we need the budget to pass so we have something to enforce .  i want to speak to that briefly because as congressional watchers may have seen or misinterpreted , the intramural discussion that went on and fighting that may have seemed to be happening between friends and colleagues , i interpret what the rsc was doing , the republican study committee was doing with regard to enforcement to be the exact right attitude to have .  that is if you are going to do the work of having a budget , then let us enforce it .  the good news from my standpoint is last year when we were not able to get a budget through both bodies , the house took the version we passed , we deemed it , and we enforced it .  we stuck to it .  at the final analysis of the congressional budget office when all of the smoke cleared and they finally were able to close all of the books , you know what we blew that budget by , a $ 2.4 trillion budget , and we missed it by $ 400 million .  now members could say we missed it , but i would say for not having a budget in both the house and senate and not having the budget being the force of law with the president , i would say that is a pretty good track record and one that i give a lot of credit to our speaker , in particular , for having accomplished .  i give them much credit not only on the work product of coming forward with a budget , but also their desire to enforce it .  i stand ready to work shoulder to shoulder and side by side with them as we not only get that budget done , but enforce the budget the rest of the year .  i commend them on their work product , and i reluctantly will vote against their budget .  mr. chairman , i reserve the balance of my time .  mr. chairman , i move that the committee do now rise .  the motion was agreed to .  accordingly , the committee rose ; and the speaker pro tempore ( mrs. drake )  having assumed the chair , mr. latourette , chairman of the committee of the whole house on the state of the union , reported that that committee , having had under consideration the concurrent resolution ( h. con .  res. 95 ) establishing the congressional budget for the united states government for fiscal year 2006 , revising appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal year 2005 , and setting forth appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal years 2007 through 2010 , had come to no resolution thereon .  mr. chairman , could i inquire how much time is remaining on both sides .  mr. chairman , i yield myself such time as i may consume .  if i might take just a brief moment in introducing my first speaker , i would like to just say on behalf of our side in particular but i think on behalf of the entire congress , we always respect members who go on to bigger and better things and today the president made a wise announcement in nominating the gentleman from ohio ( mr. portman )  to become our u.s. trade representative .  the applause meter made it look pretty good for confirmation there , i say to my very good friend , and he is my friend .  he has been the vice chairman of the committee on the budget , and he has been a great wing man and personal friend to so many .  mr. chairman , for those of you who have read the prophet micah , i know that he was not speaking to the congressional budget office .  he was speaking to the human heart , and that is the biggest difference between the policies that we have before us today .  we believe that the individual should be free and should be allowed to determine their destiny .  we do not believe that government should make decisions that people can make better for themselves .  we do not believe that money equals compassion .  we do not believe that money often equals success .  money is not getting us results .  and all that is offered on the other side is more money , more spending , higher taxes , more government , more bureaucracy , more regulation , more laws , more politicians making decisions that individuals and families and communities should be making for themselves my friends , government is growing out of control .  what we are asking for in this budget is something that we should do every day in washington , and that is look at the results of the programs that we have put in place .  government , we believe , should be there to help people who can not help themselves .  and oftentimes , we have invented more government to try and take the place of families , take the place of neighbors , take the place of communities in order to solve problems .  and too often we are not getting the results for all the extra money that we are spending .  and too often , in this well of the house , we debate between percentages and dollar increases as if , if i spend $ 6 and you spend $ 7 you must care $ 1 more .  and that is not the way our debate should evolve .  our debate should be based on results .  we need a results revolution in government .  we need to look at the results we are getting from the programs we have put in place .  if they just like last year , the house will lead .  we led last year .  we led when we got to a balanced budget in the late 1990s , and we will lead again today by passing what i believe is the strongest budget , the best blueprint , to get out of deficits , to make sure that we get results from the programs and the dollars that we are spending and make sure we get back on a path to freedom in this country .  i urge adoption of this budget .  madam chairman , i rise to speak on the appropriations bill for the department of the interior , environment , and related agencies .  this measure is part of the first wave of appropriations bills to be considered under the fiscal year 2006 budget resolution , and provides for the resource management needs for our nation , clearly a national priority .  the bill , which is in compliance with h. con .  res. 95 , the concurrent resolution on the budget , provides appropriations for most of the department of the interior , the environmental protection agency , the forest service , the indian health service , the smithsonian institution , and the national foundation for the arts and humanities , among others .  for the first time , the house appropriations subcommittee on interior , environment , and related agencies marked up a bill with their new jurisdiction , reflecting additional responsibility for all discretionary programs under the environmental protection agency and losing some energy department programs previously under their jurisdiction .  h.r. 2361 provides $ 26.1 billion in appropriations for fiscal year 2006 , which is $ 653 million , or 2.2 percent , below the fiscal year 2005 level .  the level is $ 432 million over the president 's request .  the bill complies with section 302 ( f ) of the budget act , which prohibits consideration of bills in excess of an appropriations subcommittee 's 302 ( b ) allocation of budget authority and outlays established in the budget resolution .  this measure , like government spending on the whole , has been drawn up under a tighter-than-normal budget constraint .  however , this does not mean that needed services are cut in a meaningful way .  two examples from the bill are useful in illustrating this point , one in firefighting through the forest service and the department of the interior , and the other in water programs for the epa .  regarding firefighting , i would point out that the base we are using for comparison , had higher-than-normal spending due to a one-time appropriation of $ 500 million to be used as insurance in case regular fire fighting appropriations become exhausted .  excluding this one-time appropriation means that the measure before us is $ 153 million less than the 2005 level rather that $ 653 million less than 2005 .  moreover , some of this one-time money is still available , and will remain available for obligation next fiscal year too for its intended use if regular funding becomes exhausted .  in the water program area , the committee looked for ways to secure funding for epa 's clean water program , a program mentioned even during our own budget resolution proceedings .  i understand that gao found over $ 100 million in expired epa grants , contracts , and inter-agency agreements , and that the bill rescinds this money in order to fund an increase in the level of clean water program funding to $ 850 million from the president 's request of $ 730 million .  while it maybe the case that the $ 100 million found in these accounts , some dating back to the 1980s , would never have been actually been spent , the savings constitute legitimate efforts under the budget act .  i also note that because this account carries hundreds of millions of dollars in unobligated balances from year to year , the impact from budget reductions relative to the current fiscal year are not likely to result in reductions in community investments next fiscal year .  h.r. 2361 does not contain any emergency-designated ba , which is exempt from budget limits .  the bill reduces a national park service contract authority account by $ 30 million -- an account not subject to annual appropriations -- thereby offsetting discretionary spending through changes in a mandatory spending program .  if this provision were stricken ( because it constitutes legislating on an appropriations bill ) the measure as reported would exceed its allocation under section 302 ( b ) of the congressional budget act .  as we enter the appropriations season , i wish chairman lewis and our colleagues on the appropriations committee the best in maintaining their admirable pace of bringing bills to the floor .  in conclusion , i express my support for h.r. 2361 .  madam chairman , i rise to speak on the measure before us , providing budget authority for programming by the u.s. department of agriculture and others .  it provides for about 20 percent of total usda budget authority .  as chairman of the budget committee , i am pleased to note that this bill is consistent with the levels established in h. con .  res. 95 , the house concurrent resolution on the budget for fiscal year 2006 .  overall spending in the bill is $ 29 million more than the 2005 enacted level and $ 22 million above the president 's request .  in most areas within usda , appropriators ended up somewhere between the president 's request and the 2005 enacted level .  none of the president 's initiatives to collect $ 178 million in new or increased user fees was taken up , making up the difference through spending reductions in some discretionary programs and through $ 1.4 billion in reductions in some mandatory programs authorized for the first time in the 2002 farm bill .  the bill makes changes in various mandatory programs that reduce net budget authority by $ 1.4 billion .  specifically , it reduces budget authority by about 25 percent for a number of mandatory conservation programs and eliminates funding for a subset of agricultural research and rural development programs .  while the use of one-year savers in mandatory programs to stay within the subcommittee 's 302 ( b ) allocation has become routine , the agriculture committee could change some of these same mandatory programs themselves in order to comply with the reconciliation instructions in the fiscal year 2006 budget resolution .  h.r. 2744 provides $ 1.8 billion for the salaries and expenses of the food and drug administration [ fda ] , an increase of $ 55.3 million , or 3.1 percent , above the 2005 enacted level and a decrease of $ 17.7 million below the president 's request .  of the appropriated funds , $ 357 million is financed from on-going drug , device and animal drug user fees .  under provisions of the prescription drug user fee act , the fda will collect $ 305 million as user fees to offset part of the costs of prescription drug approval .  this bill provides an increase of $ 12.4 million for food safety and counter-terrorism activities to ensure consumers are protected against intentional and accidental risks that threaten our food supply .  h.r. 2744 does not contain any emergency-designated ba , which is exempt from budget limits .  the bill does rescind $ 32 million in the unobligated balances of the special supplemental nutrition program for women , infants , and children .  i am particularly pleased that this legislation contains critical funding for ag and food safety programs in my home state of iowa .  specifically , i would like to commend the committee for funding the completion of the national centers for animal health in ames , iowa , where vital research to keep our nation 's food supply safe is being done everyday .  in addition , this bill continues funding for the agriculture-based industrial lubricants ( abil ) program at the university of northern iowa in my congressional district .  the abil program continues to promote value-added and environmentally safe agriculture products .  as we continue the appropriations season , i commend chairman lewis and our colleagues on the appropriations committee for meeting the needs of the american public within the framework established by the budget resolution .  in conclusion , i express my support for h.r. 2744 .  mr. chairman , i thank the gentleman for yielding me this time .  mr. chairman , i appreciate very much this opportunity to talk about the budget .  in listening to the debate today on both sides of the aisle , there has been a lot of expression of concern about the deficit ; and , of course , i am very concerned about the deficit as well .  but i would like to make a suggestion that we are not facing primarily a budgetary crisis or a budgetary problem .  i see this more as a philosophic problem , dealing more with the philosophy of government rather than thinking that we can tinker with the budget , dealing with this as a tactical problem when really it is a strategic problem .  so as long as we endorse the type of government that we have and there is a willingness for the people as well the congress to finance it , we are going to continue with this process and the frustrations are going to grow because it is just not likely that these deficits will shrink .  and the gentleman from pennsylvania rightly pointed out the concerns this might have in the financial markets .  i am hoping that his optimism pans out because , indeed , if they do not , there could be some ramifications from these expanding deficits and what it means to our dollar .  but i would like to suggest that in dealing with the budget itself , i see only one problem that we have .  and that problem to me is the budget is too big , and i would like to shrink the budget .  i have toyed with the idea over the years to introduce and offer a constitutional budget to the house floor .  that would not be too difficult because the budget would be so much smaller .  it would mean essentially that if one is a strict constitutionalist that they would cut the budget approximately 80 percent .  what would that mean to the economy ?  it would be a boost because we would be injecting $ 2 trillion back into the economy , allowing the people to spend their own money .  but being pretty realistic , i know that is not likely to happen or be offered or even be able to present that on the house floor .  besides , it could be rather embarrassing to bring something like that to the floor .  not so much embarrassing to me , because i am accustomed to voting in a small group of people on many occasions ; but it could be embarrassing to others because , for the most part , most members would not even conceive of the idea of having a strict interpretation of the constitution and severely limiting the budget .  so we would not want to put everybody on record for that .  the other day i heard an interview with one of our members , and he was asked about a particular program about where the authority came from in the constitution for that program .  and his answer was very straightforward ; and he explained that in the constitution there was no prohibition against that program , so therefore it was permitted .  in his mind , as it is in the minds of many members of congress , if there is no strict prohibition , it is permitted .  and that is just absolutely opposite of what was intended by the authors of the constitution that we would only be able to do those things which are explicitly permitted in the congress , and they are spelled out rather clearly in article i , section 8. and then we are given the permission to write the laws that are necessary and proper to implement those powers that are delegated to us .  those powers that are not delegated are reserved to the states and to the people .  so it means that those things that are not prohibited are permitted , but i would say that the conventional wisdom today is that people accept the notion that we can do anything that we want as long as it is not prohibited by the constitution .  i think this improper understanding and following of the constitution has brought us closer to a major crisis in this country , a crisis of our personal liberties , a crisis in our foreign policy , as well as a crisis in our budgeting .  but it is not simply the ignoring of the constitution that i think is our problem .  i think our other problem is our country and our people and our congresses and our senators have accepted the notion of faith in government , faith in the state , that the state can provide these great services and do it efficiently .  really , there are only two areas that would have to be cut if we were to strive for a constitutional budget .  there are only two things that we would have to cut , and it would be welfare and warfare .  and then we would get back to some fundamentals .  during world war i , a gentleman by the name of randolph bourne wrote a pamphlet called `` war is the health of the state , '' and i truly believe that .  when we are at war , we are more likely to sacrifice our liberties ; and , of course , we spend more money that we really have .  i would like to suggest a corollary , that peace is the foundation of liberty because that is what the goal of all government should be : the preservation of liberty .  we have endorsed a program with this interpretation that spending is going to be endlessly increased , and we have devised a system whereby we have ignored the constraints through monetary policy by not only are we taxing too much and borrowing too much ; we have now since 1971 endorsed a monetary system that if we come up short we just print the money .  and i would suggest to the gentlewoman that one of the reasons why the workers ' purchasing power is going down is we print too many dollars and they are the ones who are most likely and first to suffer from inflation .  and it is the philosophy of government and our philosophy on money that encourages these problems .  and the current account deficits and this huge foreign indebtedness that are encouraged by our ability to maintain a reserve currency , it is going to lead to a crisis where this spending will have to come in check .  and that is why the gentleman from pennsylvania is quite correct that we should be concerned about how the financial markets look at what we do .  and hopefully we will be able to deal with this in a budgetary way and institute some restraints .  but quite frankly i am a bit pessimistic about that .  this program that we follow and this philosophy we followed prompted our federal reserve to create $ 620 billion in order to finance the system .  that is the reason that the dollar becomes less valuable , because we just print too many to accommodate the politicians and the people who enjoy the excessive spending .  mr. speaker , i rise simply to express profound gratitude for the leadership that chairman ralph regula has provided in bringing this extraordinary measure to the floor .  i also commend the chairman of the appropriations committee , the gentleman from california , for his leadership .  the challenge of being in the spending branch of government is to fund the nation 's priorities and to live within our means .  and this legislation for fiscal year 2006 , with labor , health and human services and education , does just that .  the story goes that chairman ralph regula was at the white house , saw ronald reagan and they talked about the fence at the reagan ranch .  and a day later , ralph regula received a handwritten set of instructions about how to build a fence that is on the wall of his office today .  what is clear today to house conservatives is that ralph regula learned more than just how to build a fence from ronald reagan .  he learned how to fund the nation 's priorities with the fiscal discipline that characterizes this governing party .  and for that , i am grateful .  mr. chairman , i yield myself such time as i may consume to ask the gentleman if we had hearings before it was put in this bill 20 years ago and every year in a row ?  no .  mr. chairman , i demand a recorded vote .  mr. chairman , i thank the gentleman for yielding me this time .  i promise i will not talk about trade .  but i will talk about this budget .  i want to start by saying this budget is not all the details .  it is a blueprint .  the authorizing committees , the appropriating committees , will fill out those details .  but it is a blueprint that says something about who we are .  and the three pillars in this budget , i think , reflect the principles and the priorities of this house .  first , we believe that our country ought to be protected and strength is emphasized .  that is our national security and our homeland security .  second is to be sure we have a strong economy .  the tax relief has worked : 4.4 percent growth last year ; 3 million jobs added to our economy in the last 21 months alone .  the economy is strong and growing .  we need to be sure that continues and that is why tax increases are not part of this budget .  and , third , to be sure that we do as the gentleman from south carolina ( mr. spratt )  says appropriately , keep our spending under control , we take responsible steps to restrain spending both in domestic discretionary and in the entitlement area .  those are the three pillars .  by doing so , we reduce the deficit in half within 4 years .  i commend the chairman for coming up with this budget .  the process by which we got here also says something about who we are .  i want to commend the ranking member from south carolina ( mr. spratt )  for his civility .  i want to commend the members of the committee on the budget for the great debate that we had over the last month or so , i want to commend the members on the floor who have had a great debate here , and i want to commend , finally , the chairman of the committee on the budget .  the gentleman from iowa has conducted himself in the committee on the budget and here on the floor through an open , honest process where people have had the opportunity to say their peace .  he has done a great job in listening carefully to the concerns of so many of us in this conference and in the entire congress to be sure we come up with a document that does indeed reflect the priorities , i believe , of our house , the strength of our country , the growth of our economy , and getting spending under control .  i strongly urge my colleagues to support this budget which is , although just a blueprint , the appropriate statement of who we are and does indeed get us to the point where we are reducing our deficit , which is so important , but also funding the key priorities in our country .  i urge a `` yes '' vote on the resolution .  mr. speaker , pursuant to house resolution 559 , i call up the conference report on the bill ( h.r. 3010 ) making appropriations for the departments of labor , health and human services , and education , and related agencies for the fiscal year ending september 30 , 2006 , and for other purposes .  mr. speaker , i yield myself such time as i may consume .  mr. speaker , today i think we are going to do a bill that will make us proud to be americans .  why do i say proud to be americans ?  because i think this bill , more than any other , illustrates the compassion of the american people .  why do we say that ?  let me give you some examples that are in this bill and are funded .  special education , programs to help young people that are disabled for many different reasons .  it is a matter of caring for them .  centers for disease control , an agency that is in 43 countries around the world watching out for us .  we hear a lot about avian flu .  we worry about avian flu , but the people that are really doing this are americans in the centers for disease control team that is out there in these 43 nations , ready to stand by and alert us if it becomes a greater problem .  education .  the number one challenge of government today is to educate people to compete in the world of tomorrow .  if you read the literature , you find more and more emphasis on the importance of education if a nation is to remain strong , if a nation is to provide a standard of living that the people expect , that we are used to enjoying in this country .  the competition is going to get tougher in the years ahead .  you only need to read tom friedman 's book `` the world is flat '' in which it is pointed out how much is happening or talk to people that have traveled , as is the case of my state superintendent , to countries in the far east , and realize how much emphasis is being put on education .  we in the united states need to do the same , and this bill recognizes that .  education , going back to thomas jefferson , was designed to give all americans through a system of public education , an equal opportunity to their future .  head start .  it is another program under education where we say to children from areas and schools and homes where they may not get somebody reading to them , may not have a chance to get that head start they need going into the school program .  our authorizing committee , i think , took a giant step forward on head start in authorizing it to become more than just a welfare program , as was originally envisioned , but actually providing that people that man the head start program have some experience in education , that they do more than teach .  the literature makes it very clear that education does not start at the first grade or even for that matter in the period ahead of that .  it starts early , early on , and head start is another example of the compassion of america .  national institutes of health .  we fund that in this bill .  this is an agency that is researching , finding cures .  every member i am sure has had parents in his office with a child with juvenile diabetes or with a parent with alzheimer 's , pleading with us to do more in medical research , to find cures ; and this , again , illustrates the compassion of america .  we have more than doubled the amount of money going to nih in the last several years because we recognize that this is key to the health of america , to find cures , to find new ways to address the concerns of the people that all of us have seen in our office who are pleading with us to do something .  this bill has 500 programs in it , 500 programs that help americans , and in many different ways .  math and science , i have here a report just put out by a group commissioned by two senators and two house members , and it is entitled `` rising above the gathering storm. '' think about that title : `` rising above the gathering storm. '' what is the gathering storm ?  the gathering storm is the inability to compete as a nation , and the thrust of this report is to rise above that .  their number one recommendation is an increase in america 's talent pool by vastly improving k-12 science and mathematics education .  we make that kind of a commitment in this bill .  we do give extra funding for math and science and recognize that in the world of tomorrow for our young people to compete they need to have that background .  meals on wheels , another example of compassion .  if you have talked with people that work in this program , mostly volunteers who take out these meals , that allows seniors to stay in their homes for a longer period of time , that allows them to see somebody if they are living alone maybe once a day or more often in the week , a wonderful program in terms of caring about people .  afterschool programs , we fund those , and those of you who live particularly in the big cities realize how important that is .  i talked this morning with a young man that is running an afterschool program in the gentleman from pennsylvania 's ( mr. sherwood )  district , a member of our committee , where he said how much they can help people with their afterschool programs .  there are moneys in here to roll out the prescription drug program because we have a responsibility in this committee to provide for the administration of these programs .  global aids .  global aids is in this bill , $ 100 million to address , along with the money in the foreign operations bill that again is very , very important ; and i think we can be proud to be americans .  that is what i said at the outset .  i say it again , that when you look at what we have funded in this bill , we have funding in this bill for 280 million americans and over many billions of dollars to address the needs of people , that addresses things that are very important in their lives .  i urge all the members , before you rush to judgment on this bill , realize that we are in this bill doing a lot of good things for american citizens .  maybe it is not as much as you like , not many bills ever are as much as people would like that have a high degree of interest , but there is a lot of good in here .  there is a lot in here for special education .  we increase it .  we increase nih .  more medical research to address those problems of juvenile diabetes is an example that you hear about in your office ; more money for education , title i. more money for community health centers .  any of us who have those in , and i hope most members do , realize how important the community health centers are to people who have no access , who do not have a family doctor .  it helps the hospitals because it means that people can go to the community health center instead of to the emergency room .  we add money for that .  community services block grants .  think of that title .  community services , and we give block grants to communities to administer to local problems .  this is an example of a program that helps local people .  liheap , again , americans recognizing that people in areas of severe weather conditions need an additional helping hand , and that is especially true in this time that we are living in where people need to address the problems of excessive fuel costs .  so i can not say enough .  i hope all of my colleagues and the members that are listening to this , reading the bill , will take note of the fact that whereas this may not be everything you like , this bill does a lot of good .  i do not think you want to go home and tell people you are against more money for special education , for those that are least fortunate , that you are against more money for education , for medical research , for liheap , for global aids , for people around the world that are less fortunate than we are .  so , again , i say think on what the importance is of what you are doing .  take pride in america .  take pride in the compassion of the people of this nation as embodied in this bill .  mr. speaker , the complete table of all the funding levels included in the conference report has been printed in the & lt ; /em & gt ; & lt ; em & gt ; congressional record as of november 16 ; and for those of my colleagues who are wondering what each of the programs might be of the 500 , you can go to the record of november 16 and pick out a program that you might have a special interest in .  mr. speaker , i am pleased to present before the house today the conference report on the fiscal year 2006 appropriations for the departments of labor , health and human services , education and related agencies .  many of my colleagues are aware of the difficult choices we had to make in this bill .  in february , congress received the president 's fy 2006 budget request .  in light of our budget deficit , the president 's request assumed a one percent cut in domestic spending , exempting both defense and homeland security from this reduction .  our budget resolution approved this recommendation .  this cut , taken together with required increases for implementing the prescription drug benefit program , brings our bill to $ 1.4 billion below last year 's level .  let me emphasize , we made a commitment to reduce deficits .  recognizing the will of this house , we have put together a bill that best reflects the priorities of this body and does a good job of meeting the needs of the american people .  the conference report has no budget gimmicks , no emergency spending designations , and no earmarks .  so many of the programs in this bill play an important part in the lives of american people .  peter drucker , who passed away on friday , was considered by many to be the most influential management thinker of the past century .  he said , `` successful enterprises create the conditions to allow their employees to do their best work. '' a successful employee needs adequate knowledge to thrive .  i believe an investment in education is an investment in people .  we support teachers and students by increasing funding for title i by $ 100 million .  title i provides additional resources to low-income schools to help principals , teachers and students close education achievement gaps .  many of my colleagues speak with me about the financial demands of special education on their local school districts .  in this bill , funding for special education is increased by $ 100 million .  i believe the quality of classroom teachers and principals is one of the most important factors that affect student achievement .  this bill provides $ 100 million to reward effective teachers and to offer incentives for highly qualified teachers to teach in high-need schools .  we provide $ 184 million for math and science initiative .  trio , gear up , vocational education state grants , and adult education , programs have strong support from members of this body .  these programs were proposed for termination in the president 's budget ; however , we have allocated over $ 3 billion for the continuation of these important efforts .  the sharp rise in college costs continues to be a barrier to many students .  this bill provides the full amount needed to hold the maximum pell grant at the current level of $ 4 , 050 , over $ 800 million over fy 2005 .  healthcare is a critical part of a nation 's economic development .  mr. speaker , as you know , many of the community health centers have served as america 's health care safety net for the nation 's underserved populations .  funding for the community health centers is at $ 1.8 billion , an increase of $ 66 million over last year .  as a result of our commitment to the national institutes of health , our citizens are living longer and better lives .  we have provided over $ 28 billion to nih to support medical research , $ 150 million over fy 2005 .  the low income home energy assistance program ensures that low-income households are not without heating or cooling , and provides protection to our most vulnerable populations , the elderly , households with small children , and persons with disabilities .  given the anticipated high costs of energy due to hurricanes katrina and rita , we have provided over $ 2.2 billion for fy 2006 .  in the department of labor , we have provided nearly $ 3 billion for workforce training programs .  these programs will ensure that our dislocated workers and most disadvantaged youth will return to gainful employment .  mr. speaker , in order to implement more than 400 provisions of the medicare modernization act and ensure senior citizens receive the prescription drug benefits we provided in mma , we have allocated nearly $ 1 billion over the fy 2005 level to the centers for medicare & amp ; medicaid services and social security administration .  while benefits that both of these agencies provide come through mandatory spending via the ways and means committee , this bill provides the funding for the agencies ' administrative costs .  much more could be said about this bill , but given the allocation , we have produced a fair , balanced and responsible bill that best meets the needs of the american people .  mr. speaker , i reserve the balance of my time .  in terms of earmarks , a proposal was made that we take an additional $ 2 billion as emergency spending , and half of that would have been for earmarks .  but we did not do that .  the fact that there are no earmarks ?  absolutely , a billion dollars .  mr. speaker , i reserve the balance of my time .  mr. speaker , i continue to reserve my time .  mr. speaker and my colleagues , i hope you will all weigh carefully what your opportunity here is in terms of voting for this bill .  an opportunity to improve health research , an opportunity to improve education in title i , an opportunity to provide more money for special education , an opportunity to ensure that liheap is funded for those in need , an opportunity to develop community health centers where poor people can go to get help , where they can avoid having to run to the emergency room .  so many positive things .  as i said at the outset , this is a bill that makes you proud to be an american .  it illustrates the compassion of the american people .  we have heard from the other side how we are not doing enough .  let me point out that in 1996 shortly after the republican party became a majority in 1994 and took responsibility , in 1996 , the total of this bill was $ 65 billion .  here 10 years later , this bill is $ 142.5 billion , more than double the amount of money that has been committed to the compassionate programs of america , education , job training , medical research .  we could go on and on .  we heard the gentleman from california talk about qualified teachers .  i want to mention a special program in here .  it is new .  $ 100 million to help get better qualified teachers in every classroom .  over and over again we hear how important the teacher is to the education system .  not only teachers but principals , good principals , good schools .  we have recognized the importance of this by committing $ 100 million .  this bill has $ 2 billion for homeland security .  again , this is important to the american people .  homeland security in the form of cdc , checking around the world in 43 locations to ensure that avian flu does not reach our shores .  i could go on and on about the compassion of this bill in terms of helping people .  trio and gear-up , programs to help people get into college , to get that higher education that we all recognize is vital to their future and to the future of this nation .  and let me say to those of you who think that , well , the key to this is to defeat the bill .  if you defeat the bill , what is going to happen , in all likelihood , it will give these responsibilities that are embodied in this bill , the important programs for america will get rolled into some form of an omnibus bill and will be a continuing resolution .  if that were to happen , priorities that are embodied in the bill would be lost , the things that are so important to all the members of this body , but , moreover , far more important to the people of america , 280 million people .  i urge a strong , positive vote for the bill so we can continue to take pride in america and the compassion of the american people .  mr. speaker , pursuant to house resolution 596 , i call up the further conference report on the bill ( h.r. 3010 ) making appropriations for the departments of labor , health and human services , and education , and related agencies for the fiscal year ending september 30 , 2006 , and for other purposes .  mr. speaker , i yield myself such time as i may consume , and i would just like to say to my colleagues and friends on the other side of the aisle to take a second look at this bill .  i know that , in our first iteration , they did not give us any votes , but let me point out to you that if the bill were to fail , we would end up with a cr , a full year 's cr , because you know we are not going home without something in this field .  these are important programs , over 500 of them .  what would happen with a cr ?  well , there would be $ 800 million less for student aid , $ 278 million less for innovation and improvement programs , $ 178 million less for higher education programs , $ 94 million less for title i programs and $ 84 million less for special education programs .  that would be a disastrous result that i do not think any of us on either side of the aisle would want to happen .  in addition , if we were to go to a cr , if this bill were to fail , liheap funding would be reduced by $ 298 million , with no contingency for extreme weather .  community services block grant would be cut $ 317 million .  national institutes of health would be cut $ 198 million , with 200 fewer research grants .  mr. speaker , i want to say to all my colleagues that this is not something we want to make as a christmas gift to the american people , a cr on this bill .  this bill is a good bill .  it reflects good management of what we had to work with .  i might say at the outset that there are no earmarks in the bill , none , for anyone , either side or any person .  absolutely no earmarks , and no earmarks for the senate either .  but i want to tell you what happened to the earmarked money , because we had $ 1 billion in the bill that originally passed the house back early on .  of that money , $ 100 million is going to title i to help our schools ; $ 100 million is going to special education state grants to help the programs that help the disadvantaged students .  mr. speaker , $ 250 million is going to nih for research , and we recognize that the challenge is great in that field to research medical issues .  there is $ 317 million for community services block grant , and these help people with limited means .  there is $ 176 million in liheap and $ 66 million for community health centers , and community health centers obviously provide a place for people who do not have a family doctor and have limited means .  it gives them a place to go .  so these are good programs .  these are good uses of the money , and i think we all understand that in this time of tight budgets and tight resources , we have to set priorities .  in so doing , we set the priorities i just outlined rather than to go into earmarks .  i want to say at the outset that this program is $ 1.4 billion under 2005 , and there is no increase from the bill we had 2 weeks ago .  how did we manage to meet these program needs ?  we did it by managing carefully .  we looked at the programs and the funds that were available .  i want to point out to my colleagues on the other side of the aisle that i do not think you want to go home and tell people in the education field that you voted against an increase , let me emphasize , an increase of $ 100 million over last year in title i. i do not think you want to tell the parents and families of children with special needs that you voted against an increase in special education of $ 100 million over last year .  head start is up $ 6.8 million .  math and science partnerships , and we hear a lot about that today , these are up over last year .  we have $ 100 million to develop teacher and principal programs , incentive programs , particularly at the elementary level .  trio and gear-up , the president 's budget had zero , and we put those back in because we think those are good programs .  again , they are well funded .  community health centers i mentioned are up $ 66 million .  this is an important program .  it is important in many communities , as is liheap .  medicare modernization , we are rolling out the new program , and we have $ 980 million in this bill to assist in getting people informed to meet their desires in terms of prescription drugs .  that would not be in a continuing resolution .  nih is $ 107 million over the president 's request .  it is up this year $ 200-some million .  people think of nih being research at bethesda .  nih is basically managing 40 , 000 grants going out to colleges , hospitals , medical services all over the country .  i would guess that almost every member has one or more research grants in his or her district that is funded out of nih .  that is very important , and we have an increase in that program .  that is again part of the earmarked money , $ 28.6 billion .  community services block grant , a program that helps people get geds , is just one example of what is done with the community services .  there are a whole host of things to help people with limited income and who need additional help .  in the labor department , we have $ 1.57 billion for job corps and $ 1.48 billion for dislocated workers .  how did we manage to increase a number of programs while at the same time keeping the total number under last year , $ 1.4 billion ?  well , one of the ways that we have gotten the necessary funding to do the items that i mentioned in the way of increases was to eliminate 20 programs .  we went through the whole list of programs , the 500 , and said , does this work ?  is this a productive program ?  the bill that left the house had about 48 programs terminated .  the other body decided to put back some of those , but we still have 20 programs that have been discontinued or will be discontinued because , again , we recognize that we have to manage the resources as carefully as possible to do the important things : education , research at nih , the effort in cdc to deal with the avian flu issue .  so we tried to manage the funds available as carefully as possible .  i think the results of that are reflected in the increases i mentioned .  i might say between this and the bill we had previously , we added $ 90 million for rural health programs , very important programs , obviously ; and we did this by reducing the avian flu number because we are going to deal with that in another bill that will be coming along shortly .  so all in all , i want to say again this is a very positive bill ; it is a very responsible bill in terms of using the resources that are available .  it is something that every member can support , every member can go home and say with a measure of confidence and satisfaction , i did something to improve education , i did something to help the special needs programs , the special education program , i did something to expand the community services programs and the community health centers , nih , liheap , things that are extremely important to people .  this literally is a people 's bill , but it is a people 's bill , too , in the sense that we manage their tax dollars carefully and try to give them as much in the way of service as possible .  i hope my colleagues on the other side of the aisle will take a second look at what we have tried to do in this bill .  i recognize , of course , that you get into the tax issues , you get into budget issues , but this is not a tax bill .  it is not a budget bill .  this is a bill about taking resources that are available and using them in the best possible way to serve the people .  we had many hearings in our subcommittee .  my colleague from wisconsin was very helpful in those hearings to try to find out what is important to people .  we tried to reflect that in the bill given the fact that we had a limited amount of resources .  i would love to have more , and i am sure everybody else would , but the facts were we had to work with what we had available .  i think the bill reflects a responsible use of the resources that were made available .  i think it is a bill that will serve the american public very well .  mr. speaker , i reserve the balance of my time .  mr. speaker , i yield 2 minutes to the distinguished gentlewoman from washington ( miss mcmorris ) .  miss mcmorris .  mr. speaker , i thank the chairman for yielding me this time .  i rise in support of house bill 3010 , and i especially wanted to highlight the increased funding for critical rural health programs .  access to quality and affordable health care is one of my top priorities , and in a district that stretches 23 , 000 square miles between the canadian , idaho , and oregon borders , the distance creates considerable challenges to ensuring quality health care .  we continue to see an increasing shortage of health care professionals .  in towns like odessa , republic , davenport , primary care coverage is sparse .  pregnant women must travel over 1 hour for care .  in addition , it is becoming nearly impossible to retain primary care physicians and dentists , let alone specialists .  i have said it before and i will say it again : this is unacceptable for 21st-century health care .  this conference report is an important step in turning this tide for rural health care by increasing funds for the office of rural health and research policy , rural health outreach grants , and area health education centers .  training in primary care and dentistry will receive $ 13 million above the original conference report .  these title vii funds have helped support family medicine spokane 's rural training efforts , which is still producing family practice doctors who want to stay in practice in rural areas like washington , wyoming , alaska , montana , idaho .  training and recruitment of health professional students remains an important priority .  when this bill was addressed on the floor in june , i spoke of the need for additional rural health care funds , and chairman regula assured me that he would consider increasing those funds in the conference report .  i thank him for helping to preserve the federal rural health infrastructure and increasing funding for these necessary programs .  i appreciate his leadership on this issue .  we have made a solid step , and i urge my colleagues to support this legislation as we continue to advance legislation that will strengthen america 's rural health infrastructure .  mr. speaker , i reserve the balance of my time .  mr. speaker , i yield myself such time as i may consume .  mr. speaker , i say to my colleague from wisconsin , if you would give us a few votes , we would have an even merrier christmas .  well , i am not too sure about that .  i think it is going to be kind of tough to go home and explain how you are voting against an additional $ 100 million for title i , and i think you are going to have a tough time explaining to parents of children that have special needs that you voted against an additional $ 100 million for the programs for special needs kids .  i think you are going to have a tough time explaining how you voted against adding $ 250 million in medical research at nih to deal with the multitude of challenges , and to the communities that are earmarked for community health centers , to help people without a doctor , without medical care .  i am not sure how you explain to them they are going to have a merry christmas when they are not getting their community health centers and the community services block grants .  i want to say to my colleagues , this is a good bill .  i recognize we had limited resources .  there are a lot of things that were unusual this year with katrina and with other challenges , and what we have tried to do is do the best we can with what was available ; and i think we have done some pretty positive things .  i want to say to my colleagues on our side of the aisle , we are not getting any help from our friends on the minority side , so i would hope that we will have strong , strong support on our side to demonstrate that we can govern , that we can pass a very responsible bill with less money than the past because we have managed what we had in a more effective way .  but also i say to my colleagues that we want to say to the public that we do care about education , that we do care about the teachers , that we do care about the students who will benefit from that extra $ 100 million in title i. we want to say to the families of special needs children , we do care about your problem , and we want to support that extra $ 100 million that is in this bill .  and we want to say to people who are confronted with the whole myriad of challenging medical problems , such as juvenile diabetes , that we want to help and we want to support an additional $ 250 million for nih .  we want to say to those that need community health centers , where they do not have access to medical care , we want to help you with $ 66 million additional , and with liheap , with the northeast in particular , and with the community services block grants .  this is a bill that is caring about people .  i would suggest to my colleagues on this side that we need to demonstrate with a very strong vote that even though our friends on the other side think it is not enough that it is going to have problems involving reconciliation ; but this is not a ways and means bill , this is not a budget bill , this is the people 's bill with people 's programs .  it is not the reconciliation bill .  that is another topic , and people will have their opportunity to vote on that .  but i simply want to say that given the resources that we have , given the times that we are confronted with , that we have done a very responsible job , even to the point that members have sacrificed their earmarks .  they have sacrificed $ 1 billion worth of earmarks in order to do the things that i outlined before , to do more education , to do more health research , to do more community health centers .  so this is something that all of us are taking part in trying to serve the needs of the american people as effectively as possible .  this is a lot of money , $ 142.5 billion , and this literally is the people 's bill .  i want to point out to my friends on the other side that when the republicans became the majority party , this bill was $ 69 billion .  today , it is $ 142 billion , more than double what it was in 1994 .  that is pretty substantial dedication to education , to health research , to a whole host of things .  i would point out in the last 10 years we have increased title i aid to disadvantaged students by 91 percent .  we have increased special education by 380 percent .  that is a dramatic increase .  i think it is great that we , and i want to say historically that has had strong bipartisan support , that we care about people who have needs .  i was once an elementary principal in a public school , and we did not have any special education program .  that was the problem of the families .  today , we have billions of dollars spent on these programs .  that is a credit to america , that people do care about each other ; and it is demonstrated by the support we have for idea , with an increase of 380 percent .  that has been bipartisan .  we have tripled the federal funding for reading programs .  i think we are more and more aware that learning to read early in your education experience is vitally important .  today , we are faced within the united states with a dropout rate of over 30 percent .  that is a terrible waste of human talent .  one of the things that causes that , i think , is inadequate reading programs early on .  we are trying to address that problem .  we have addressed that problem .  we are also recognizing in this bill that the key to a good public education system is a good teacher , a good principal , a good superintendent , caring people .  so we put in this bill some additional money to recruit and retrain quality public school teachers and principals .  parents who have worked with principals in the school system know how important that is .  pell grants , we have gone up 64 percent in the last 10 years .  again , we want to help those students who want to get an education who have limited economic resources to get an opportunity to participate in the american dream .  we have done this with america 's historically black colleges .  we have increased their funding 182 percent .  that is a dramatic commitment on the part of the federal government .  all in all , i think we as a congress can take some pride .  this is not the back of the bus when you spend $ 142 billion .  anything but .  this is a front-row seat .  and we have tried to make sure that every american , every american , could be in that front-row seat on the education bus , on the health research bus , on the labor department programs for job retraining bus .  i think this is a bill we can take pride in .  my colleagues on my side , since we can not get any help from our friends on the minority side for whatever reason , i have not quite figured that out , but i think our members need to strongly support this bill and continue the pride we can take in our accomplishments since we became a majority , since 1994 , as i have outlined , and particularly in the last 10 years .  this is a bill that is responsible , it is a bill that reflects good management of resources , it is a bill that we should all support strongly .  i hope my colleagues on the majority side will come in and vote in a positive way to increase education , to increase medical research , to increase a whole host of things that will serve our people throughout this land effectively .  mr. chairman , here we are addressing an issue we have addressed many times over the last several years .  i find myself in a precarious position because i do support the agriculture appropriations bill , and i think the gentleman from texas ( mr. bonilla )  deserves a pat on the back for the fine work he has accomplished over the last several months in putting this piece of legislation together .  the issue i am talking about today is country-of-origin labeling .  the thing we can not kid ourselves about is that the actions that were taken within the committee on appropriations will effectively delay country-of-origin labeling 's implementation , but , unfortunately , it probably kills it because there is that attempt that is occurring .  this was an issue supported by the house of representatives and passed , supported by the senate and passed , and ultimately signed by the president of the united states .  what i find ironic is the opponents say this would be costly , difficult to implement , and it is not a safety issue .  i brought along a number of articles today that kind of take the wind out of the sails of that argument .  i find interesting that , in the auburn journal in northern california , one of the areas that has been allowed to be implemented is seafood .  fruits and vegetables are shortly behind .  the only ones that are not being able to be implemented are cattle .  so i draw members ' attention to an article in the auburn journal dated may 25 , 2005 .  what this article says is , `` seafood savvy now know where their meal grew up. '' it states , `` in the seafood section at raley 's supermarket , small blue containers line the shelves , filled with red and tan fish .  labels on the clear wrappers give traditional information about the seafood type and nutritional facts .  in the bottom right-hand corner , however , a new label is attached : a small white rectangle with bold black print that reads `product of ecuador , ' `product of china , ' or `product of u.s.a. ' `` raley 's has been labeling its seafood products since january , said keith allen , auburn raley 's meat department manager .  while the burden of labeling falls on grocers , it has not been difficult for the meat department staff to adjust to the change .  `it is just a matter of putting the sticker on the package , ' he said monday .  `` by naming the country of origin , the labels give savvy customers the opportunity to choose fish from countries with high sanitation standards and better growing conditions .  several customers have already commented on the change , allen said .  `` annette eastman , shopping at raley 's tuesday morning , said she was glad to see the new labels .  she would prefer not to buy seafood from countries such as mexico because she worries that the quality of the water where the fish that are raised is poor .  `` `i would much rather buy something from the u.s.a. , ' she said , pointing to the fish fillet labeled `product of the u.s.a. ' another shopper , tammieh vernon , also said the labels would influence her seafood purchases. '' interesting as well , i pulled this article off the internet .  the title : country-of-origin labeling good news for texas shrimp enthusiasts .  may 15 , 2005 .  `` texans who are picky about where their shrimp comes from can now rest assured that they are getting exactly what they want .  as of april 4 , labeling of fish and shellfish for country of origin and method of production became mandatory .  the announcement by the usda requires retailers to notify their customers of the country of origin of the seafood they buy .  `` `it is a win/win situation for texas , ' said agriculture commissioner susan combs .  `texans love to buy texas products , and this way they will know they are getting the quality they love .  in turn , sales will increase , providing a boost to texas shrimp producers and the state 's economy. ' `` with these new rules and regulations , more texas consumers will have the opportunity to buy lone star state shrimp .  this new regulation enables consumers to quickly differentiate between domestic and imported products , said d'anne stites , texas department of agriculture 's coordinator .  `` country-of-origin labeling or cool regulations will make marketing easier as customers can see firsthand what they are getting .  stites said , `consumers will be able to ask for texas shrimp with the knowledge of what is available in front of them. ' `` so it is a marketing issue , very clearly .  but i think the people of america want to know where their livestock does in fact come from .  it was interesting to see that japan shut our markets down on christmas eve of 2003 and still have not opened them .  unfortunately , 23 percent of our exports go to japan .  and why did they not open their markets and why did they close them in the first place ?  because we could not prove that our livestock that we are exporting to japan did not come from canada .  so it is not a trade issue .  in some ways , it is a safety issue ; and that is unfortunate .  i might also point out on may 25 of this year the usda closed its border to cattle from durango , mexico .  agriculture secretary mike johanns on tuesday announced that usda animal and plant health inspection service has closed the u.s. border to cattle from mexico 's state of durango due to inadequate health inspection programs there .  the acting chairman .  the gentleman 's time has expired .  mr. chairman , i ask unanimous consent for 2 additional minutes .  the acting chairman .  is there objection to the request of the gentleman from montana ?  mr. chairman , i reserve the balance of my time .  mr. chairman , i reserve the balance of my time .  mr. chairman , i demand a recorded vote .  madam chairman , the bill before us today is one that required many tough choices .  it required fiscal discipline .  it also required the committee to meet the environmental , land management , cultural , science , resource and recreation needs of the nation in a responsible manner ; tough choices were required and i believe the right and most reasonable choices were made .  the bill helps meet our fiscal responsibilities by cutting $ 800 million in discretionary spending from the fiscal year 2005 level , but it also allows us enough money that our nation 's priorities can be carried out by the diverse departments and agencies funded in the bill .  there are many competing interests in this bill that had to be balanced and addressed in a tight allocation .  we may hear some members lament that greater funding was not provided for a particular program , but i believe that members would be hard pressed to name another program that should be cut so the one they favor can be increased .  one thing is certain , the gentleman from north carolina ( chairman taylor ) made a special effort to include both parties in the drafting of & lt ; center & gt ; & lt ; pre & gt ; [ page : h3604 ] & lt ; /pre & gt ; & lt ; /center & gt ; the bill places priorities in the areas where they need to be .  increases were provided for wildland firefighting , the operations of the national parks and national forest systems , superfund hazardous waste cleanup program , environmental science and technology , and indian health and education .  the bill contains necessary initiatives in forest health , in backlog maintenance in the national parks , everglades restoration , and the national fire plan .  this is a bill that makes tough but right choices and puts priorities where they should be .  this bill is as good as it can be given the budget restrictions .  it deserves our support and i urge its passage .  madam chairman , there are many important parts of this bill , but i want to speak briefly to the house about our love for the national parks .  we have about a $ 600 million backlog , and it is overwhelming to try to address this in an appropriation bill where money is so tight .  we have a bill called the national parks centennial act that tries to address this .  senators mccain , feinstein , and alexander are leading the fight in the senate and the gentleman from washington ( mr. baird )  , myself , as well as key appropriators such as the gentleman from virginia ( mr. wolf )  , the gentleman from ohio ( mr. regula )  , the gentleman from illinois ( mr. lahood )  , and others here in the house .  but what is before us today is actually very important , because even in a time of tight budgets the committee on appropriations has seen fit to raise the president 's request on national parks by $ 70 million over last year 's funding , and $ 20 million above the president 's approval .  at a time when we are fighting on so many different fronts to figure out how to balance our budget and move towards a balanced budget , where every trade-off between immunizations and medicaid and whether we support our troops and veterans benefits and all this , it is important to remember the legacy of america 's national parks , america 's gifts to the world , and i appreciate it very much in this overall important bill that they have increased the funding for the national parks .  mr. chairman , i move to strike the last word .  mr. chairman , i rise to engage the chairman of the interior subcommittee in a colloquy dealing with some language in the committee report requiring the epa to fund a national academy of science study .  mr. chairman , we have already heard that there is language requiring such a study to determine the effectiveness and cost of a large dredging operation of hazardous waste sites , many of which are contaminated with pcbs .  i would point out that our colleague , the gentleman from new york ( mr. hinchey )  , who engaged in a colloquy a little earlier , stated that there was strong support for this project .  well , this is a project that has been debated for 20 years .  in some ways that is an overstatement of that support .  i represent the affected area , and in fact it has been an extremely difficult process for my constituents .  however , we all agree that further delay of the project is in no one 's best interest .  as you have already clarified , the report language , mr. chairman , in no way is intended to delay , stop or otherwise disrupt the cleanup planned for the hudson river slated to begin in the summer of 12006 .  further , the epa has reviewed the language and found no provision that would require them to disrupt the hudson river project in any way .  is that your understanding , mr. chairman ?  mr. chairman , i thank you for that kind offer and clarification .  let me just say that it has long been my position that we should not debate past decisions no the hudson river but look to the future in the region and focus on protecting those communities most directly affected by the cleanup project .  what has been consistently overlooked is the fact that dredging will have a heavy impact on people 's everyday lives .  this is especially true for the residents of fort edward , new york , who will be hosting the dewatering site in their community .  as the representative of that area , i want to continue to strive to uphold their interests and remind others that we are talking about real people and real neighborhoods , and not just political points for some special interest groups .  for that reason , i want to thank you for a separate report language provision which was inserted at my request to address the burden the hudson river cleanup project is placing on the people of fort edwards and reiterate my concern that the epa do all it can to provide assistance to the town .  it is my hope that we can jointly work towards that end and meet that important goal as the appropriation process continues .  mr. chairman , i yield myself such time as i may consume .  mr. chairman , let me quickly respond to some of the information that has been put out there .  first of all , on the cost end of it , cbo said already this is a cost-neutral proposition .  in fact , it is my contention that it will give the usda extra resources to do the job of protecting the american food chain .  secondly , we talked about the failure of a lack of a hearing .  we looked for a hearing for 2 years .  that necessitated bringing this legislation .  finally , if we are simply going to get into a debate over which organizations support it , there are vastly more organizations , some of the most preeminent experts in the horse industry who support this legislation , including congress 's top veterinarian , senator ensign , who is introducing a counterpart bill in the senate .  mr. chairman , how much time remains ?  mr. chairman , i yield myself such time as i may consume .  mr. chairman , let me quickly answer my good friend , the gentleman from iowa ( mr. king )  by saying 2 things .  when ferdinand , the great horse champion , was sold for slaughter , he was marketed as `` eating an american champion. '' there is a distinction there .  number two , i would ask how many zebras , how many cows do we know the names of ?  we know the names of many horses , and the fact is horses are not raised in this nation for human consumption .  mr. chairman , i yield myself such time as i may consume .  i just simply say , before i recognize , that the gentleman raises some interesting points ; and i would hope that the authorizing committee could go to hearings in the near future .  mr. chairman , i yield myself such time as i may consume .  before i recognize my final speaker to close , mr. chairman , let me just point out if it is about the bottom line , it is about making sure usda inspectors inspect the american food chain and not foreign food chains .  mr. chairman , i demand a recorded vote .  madam chairman , i yield myself such time as i may consume .  madam chairman , today we present for consideration by the house the interior , environment and related agencies fiscal year 2006 appropriations bill as approved by the house committee on appropriations .  the bill provides a total of $ 26.2 billion in funding for programs for the department of the interior , environmental protection agency , forest service , indian health service , the smithsonian institution , and several other environmental and cultural agencies and commissions .  the bill is $ 823 million below the fiscal year 2005 level , and $ 435 million above the administration budget request .  this is a balanced , bipartisan bill .  it provides significant increases for our national parks , indian schools , hospitals and clinics , wildfire programs ; forest health is a high priority , and the healthy forest initiative is fully funded .  the payments in lieu of taxes program has a healthy increase of $ 30 million above the budget request , and more than $ 3 million above the 2005 level .  despite our very tight allocation , the committee believes it is important to provide this increased funding for pilt .  there is an increase of $ 64 million for operations of our national park system , including a $ 30 million increase specifically designed for individual units of the national park service .  this targeted park base increase will benefit all of our parks .  the bill also restores critical funding for science programs , historic preservation programs , national forest systems programs , and save america 's treasures grants .  finally , we have restored critical environmental education , research and rural water programs in the environmental protection agency , and provided some limited increases for initiatives proposed in the budget request , including superfund , homeland security , school bus retrofits , the clean diesel program , methane to markets initiative , and the brownfields program .  the budget request for epa , while substantially below last year 's level and proposed increases in that budget request , were funded by elimination of many critical mission essential programs .  we heard from nearly every member of the house asking that we provide funding for epa programs that were eliminated or reduced in the budget .  the program restoration and increases for the various programs and agencies in this bill are offset by the decreases in land acquisition , construction , and state grant programs , and by lowering the amount provided for the increases proposed in the budget request .  this is a balanced bill .  it is within the 302 ( b ) allocation for budget authority and outlays .  it provides the needed funding to keep the agencies in the bill operating at a reasonable level .  it does not provide a lot of funding for new initiatives .  the choices made by the committee were tough and fair and responsible .  i urge all of my colleagues to support the bill .  at this point , i would like to ask that a table detailing the accounts in the bill be inserted in the record .  madam chairman , i would like to thank the staff of both the minority and majority staff , and mr. dicks , and all of those who have worked with the committee in producing this .  we have had outstanding participation , and i thank all of them for their participation .  madam chairman , i reserve the balance of my time .  madam chairman , i yield myself such time as i may consume .  before i recognize the next speaker , i want to point out that it is not , as i am hearing , that we are obliterating the clean water state revolving fund or the arts funds .  we are funding the arts and humanities $ 259 million , the same as the 2005 year .  we are funding the state revolving fund $ 850 million , the same as we did in 2005 .  unfortunately , with the costs and the deficit we have now , we can not continue to put more and more in .  we are trying to do the best we can by consistently funding our needs in this area .  madam chairman , i reserve the balance of my time .  madam chairman , i reserve the balance of my time .  madam chairman , i thank the distinguished gentleman from arizona for yielding .  i certainly agree that pilt is a necessary funding item .  we have added $ 30 million to it .  i agree with the gentleman that we will make every effort to do so as we move to conference with the senate .  as the gentleman from wisconsin mentioned a moment ago , when you go to the senate , you can not always control what happens .  we will certainly stand by our statements to decrease the spending on land if we can manage that , and we will count on the house to support us in that area .  but i do thank the gentleman for calling this to our attention , and we certainly support what he is thinking about .  the gentleman is correct .  in no way should this study delay or disrupt either phase i or ii of the planned cleanup of the hudson river or any other ongoing superfund project .  i will work with the gentleman to consider modifications to clarify this in the conference agreement .  i thank the gentleman from new york for his good work on the hudson river program and for bringing the need for clarification of the intent of the study to my attention .  madam chairman , i thank the gentleman for yielding to me .  i agree with the gentleman that invasive species pose a threat to the marine environment , and we do provide funds in the bill reported by the committee to address the invasive species act .  we have also provided other invasive species funds to stop that in areas of timber and things coming in from imports .  for instance , the hemlock wooly adelgid is one of the invasive species that are threatening one of our species and may wipe it out in plant area .  but the gentleman is right , and i will work with him to see if we can increase funding in this area in the conference report .  i note there are some small increases included in the bill for invasive species efforts by the fish and wildlife service also .  so we will try to work with him to increase his request .  mr. chairman , i rise to claim the time in opposition .  the gentleman is correct .  in no way should this study delay or disrupt either phase 1 or 2 of the planned cleanup of the hudson river , any other ongoing superfund site , and i know of no party involved that wishes that delay .  i will work with the gentleman to consider whether modifications to the language are needed to further clarify this point .  i thank the gentleman from new york ( mr. sweeney )  for his good work on the hudson river cleanup and for bringing the need for clarification of the intent of the study to my attention .  i like forward to working with the gentleman and learning more about port edwards ' needs .  mr farr .  mr. chairman , i move to strike the last word .  mr. chairman , i would like to engage in a brief colloquy , if you will , on the subject of the proposed usgs laboratory in santa cruz , california .  mr. chairman , i would be happy to discuss this matter with the gentleman from california ( mr. farr )  .  i understand the gentleman 's concern over this issue , and appreciate his desire to see the facility built .  i would be pleased to assist in a meeting with the gentleman and agency officials on this matter .  i thank the gentleman for his commitment to this issue .  i thank the gentlewoman from guam ( ms. bordallo )  for raising the budget issues .  the committee recognizes the uniqueness and development needs of the war in the pacific national historical park in guam .  we will work with the national park service to remedy this situation .  i thank the gentlelady for her efforts and look forward to continuing to work with her on this matter in the future .  mr. chairman , i move that the committee do now rise .  accordingly , the committee rose ; and the speaker pro tempore ( mr. terry )  having assumed the chair , mr. shimkus , acting chairman of the committee of the whole house on the state of the union , reported that that committee , having had under consideration the bill ( h.r. 2361 ) making appropriations for the department of the interior , environment , and related agencies for the fiscal year ending september 30 , 2006 , and for other purposes , had come to no resolution thereon .  mr. chairman , as the chairman indicated , i chair a working group appointed by the gentleman from illinois ( speaker hastert ) called save america 's cities .  this working group has 24 members of the republican conference who have backgrounds in urban issues , either having served as mayors or members of city councils or otherwise in local government , or who by their districts have a natural affinity for urban issues by working closely with their communities and seeing the difficulty of urban revitalization and redevelopment and the commitment to bringing jobs back to our cities .  mr. chairman , i support the committee on the budget in adding $ 1.140 billion to the administration 's request for programs under the community and regional development function in the budget , which includes the community development block grant .  the budget document itself specifically lays out that the funds are being restored with the clear intention of supporting the community development block grant program , or cdbg .  it goes on to state that the resolution makes no assumption regarding implementation of the president 's proposed strengthening america 's communities block grant or transferring the community development block grant program from the department of hud to the department of commerce .  this is an important notation because it is very important for national associations that support urban issues , like the u.s. conference of mayors , the national league of cities , that have had a great deal of concern about the consolidation of 18 programs , some of which are currently located in hud , to commerce and the reduction in overall spending , which was proposed of 30 percent .  this house , in taking the action of supporting the committee on the budget 's resolution , does not accept the president 's level of funding and looks to restore functions for cdbg that go to important issues in our community such as taking abandoned houses and refurbishing them , demolishing abandoned buildings where they can not be rehabilitated , taking abandoned lots that might have been strewn with broken grass or be places where criminals congregate and turning them into community parking lots that can help support areas of local community business districts .  looking , as the gentlewoman from connecticut ( mrs. johnson )  was saying , to the area of brownfields , we have abandoned factory sites throughout our urban core which make it more difficult for us to bring jobs to those areas of our cities , to find ways to environmentally clean up those sites , and to demolish the buildings , bringing jobs back into them .  the community development block grant program supports those functions .  i also serve as chairman of the federalism and the census subcommittee of the committee on government reform , and we recently held a subcommittee hearing on the administration 's proposal to consolidate existing direct grant economic and community development programs within the department of commerce .  we heard information from the u.s. conference of mayors and the national league of cities where they told of the success of these programs .  i want to thank the chairman for listening to the great degree of success that they have had in the past and looking to ways that we can continue to support this program .  so i appreciate the addition of the $ 1.140 billion and the notation of the support for the community development block grant program .  mr. speaker , i thank chairman regula for yielding me this time .  and i thank him for not only his work product today , but for his many , many years of service to this country and to this congress .  he has been a remarkable leader throughout his career , and there is no one in this house who can question his sincerity or his knowledge of the issues that he is responsible for .  i rise today in strong support of this bill .  we will hear much from the other side of the aisle about what is missing from this bill , why we are not spending enough in this bill .  we are spending $ 142 billion on the needs of our american citizens .  that is more money than the entire budgets , the entire budgets , of russia , china , germany , and we could throw in 15 or 20 other countries .  this is more money than they spend on their entire budget including their military .  it is a pretty remarkable commitment to our nation and to our fellow citizens .  this is money that does not come easy .  this does not come from god .  this comes out of people 's pockets .  we are going to hear an awful lot about these tax cuts .  well , we have tried to reduce the tax burden on americans who are paying for these benefits .  they pay for these benefits out of the goodness of their heart .  first of all , they have to pay taxes to help support our government .  we take that money , we turn it around , and most of the money we spend goes toward helping our fellow americans , and that is what this bill is all about .  congressman bill natcher , god rest his soul , used to refer to this as `` the people 's bill. '' this is the bill that helps educate our kids , that helps keep us healthy , that pays for social security and medicare and medicaid and all of our federal health programs .  and i do not know how anyone , except for nibbling around the edges , could criticize an effort where we are spending these tremendous amounts of money to help those among us who are less fortunate .  but there is also the argument that we will hear on the other side of the aisle about our deficits , that our deficits are too high , our deficits are growing , our deficits , our deficits , our deficits ; but every time we bring a bill to the floor , there is not enough money in it .  they can not have both ways .  they can not rail against deficits and then tell us that we need to spend more money on every program in the federal budget .  there is no question these are difficult choices , but i think if i were going to entrust my decisions on these things to anyone , it would be to congressman regula , who has been doing this for so many years .  there are a lot of problems in our country , lots of them , and we have them in our home towns , our big cities , our rural areas , and this is an effort to deal with those problems .  for example , our party , we have , since we have become the majority , provided billions and billions more in dollars for education , remembering that the education dollar , public education , was 95 percent state and local funds .  now it is about 92 because we have so dramatically increased our contribution to that .  and yet 50 percent of the kids who start high school in the united states today do not finish high school .  that is a tragedy and it is atrocious , and it shows it is not just about the money .  it is about parents , it is about school boards , it is about teachers , it is about kids , getting it right , taking a serious look at our public educational system in this country and realizing , as so many have said , that we we are also providing billions and billions of dollars for health care .  in this bill we are not even talking about the brand new medicare prescription drug benefit , the $ 400 billion prescription drug benefit that congress just enacted that is just taking place today .  again , what a remarkable response by the government of the united states to the needs of our senior citizens , because everybody knows that health care in this country has changed .  people do not just go to the hospital anymore to get an operation .  they go to the doctor , they get prescription drugs .  the prescription drugs help them to live long , healthy , quality lives .  and because of these programs like medicare , medicare prescription drugs , social security , we now have the healthiest and wealthiest group of senior citizens that the world has ever seen .  this is a continuing commitment to that .  i urge my colleagues to forget about the nibbling around the edges and support a good solid bill that will help our fellow americans .  mr. speaker , i would like to thank chairman regula for his leadership on this bill .  this bill , of all bills , has a very , very strong history of bipartisanship .  one of the predecessor chairmen of this bill was a fellow named bill natcher who served with great distinction in this house for 40 years .  never missed a vote .  and when he would get up and ask for bipartisan support for this bill , he would get it .  as a member of the minority , for year after year i voted for this bill because it is the people 's bill , because the needs of the american public are met by this bill .  and the people who pay the taxes benefit in large part from the services and support programs provided in this bill .  there are over 500 programs in this bill .  it is a very complex bill , the american public is very concerned about the level of acrimony and partisanship here in washington today .  here is a day , here is a bill where we can set that aside and work together to provide a bipartisan vote to support this bill .  is it a perfect bill ?  no .  but it is a good bill .  and there is an old saying : do not let the perfect be the enemy of the good .  and this is a very good bill .  we do not have unlimited resources in this country .  we have to make priorities .  and chairman regula has done that .  under his leadership , and since our party became the majority party , we have doubled -- doubled the amount of federal aid to public education .  we have doubled .  that is an astounding number .  and there is an even better one .  we have tripled the funding for the national institutes of health , the institute that provides the research , that supports the research done at american colleges and research institutions around the country , that gives us , this country , the level of quality of health care that it has , the best in the world .  so we not only have set these priorities in a very tough budget year , but he has increased funding .  by making further changes in the bill , chairman regula has provided an additional $ 100 million for funding for special education to states .  now , again , both parties have been very supportive over the years of the individuals in education act .  we , our party , i think , to our credit , have dramatically increased the level of funding in idea .  the democrats did their part .  we are doing our part .  we have , again , increased liheap , which is very important in my part of the country , in the northeast .  and community health centers , for the people who do not have health insurance in this country , here is an opportunity to help them , to provide health care , good solid health care that we all need .  so i just hope that we can set partisanship and some of that acrimony that we all have to deal with on a daily basis down here ; let us set it aside on this really good , solid effort , and let us all support this bill .  and i thank chairman regula for his leadership , and i am proud to be a member of this subcommittee .  mr. speaker , i thank the chairman for yielding , and i want to commend the gentleman for his outstanding work on this piece of legislation .  the chairman is , i believe , well noted on both sides of the aisle for being a very compassionate and caring person , but as well a responsible adult .  when i travel around my congressional district , yes , it is true there are certain groups that would like to see areas of this bill increased .  the things i hear overwhelmingly and most loudly is that these are difficult times .  we have had tremendous outlays and expenditures with hurricane katrina , the war in iraq and that we really need to hold the line on spending .  and what this bill does , i believe , is unprecedented in my 11 years of being here in the house of representatives .  it actually reduces spending from last year .  so this is not washingtonspeak gimmicks where you take a 7 percent increase and reduce it to a 6.9 percent increase and scream and yell about that being a cut .  this is a real reduction in spending , and i think it is quite impressive .  it eliminates 21 existing programs and cancels eight new programs .  what chairman regula has done is adopted a philosophy which i think everybody in the congress should adopt , look at programs very seriously and are they getting the job done .  and if they are not , they should be eliminated .  and contrary to reagan 's statement that the only thing that has eternal life in washington , d.c .  is a federal program , chairman regula has been able to reduce and eliminate 21 existing programs because they were not effective .  within that context , the bill includes , i think , a number of important increases along the lines of what i believe the american people want to see .  they are small in the budget realities we are dealing with now , nonetheless , they are real .  the pell grant amount was increased so that we could keep the size of the grant the same .  additionally , there are some small increases for special education and title 1. i want to particularly commend the chairman for holding the line on the weldon language .  we have had in this bill for , as i understand it , decades , conscience protections for health care providers that do not want to perform abortions .  but in recent years , very aggressive abortion rights advocates have been putting pressure , using regulatory agencies and state governments and courts on hospitals and other institutions to begin performing abortions when the officials and the workers in those institutions did not want to do that .  and what we have done is held the existing language from last year , which , i think , is the right policy for the congress .  it is the right policy for the american people .  so i commend all my colleagues to vote for this bill .  it is a good piece of legislation .  it is the right thing for this country at this time and our history with the challenges that we face today .  mr. speaker , i thank the chairman for yielding , and i want to commend him for producing a very good bill , and i want to commend the full committee chairman , mr. lewis .  i came to congress 11 years ago , and over that 11-year time period , i have seen the size of this bill more than double .  the working families in my congressional district have not seen their incomes double in that time period .  we have seen unprecedented challenges that we have had to face this year , hurricane katrina , recovery from that , hurricane wilma , which significantly affected my district and the state i live in , and then , of course , we are fighting a war , a war on terror in this country .  this is a very , very responsible bill .  it is a good bill .  i just ask all members to keep in mind , you will hear statements that this bill is going to devastate health care in america .  we have an over $ 13 trillion economy .  we spend more than 17 percent on health care .  the discretionary accounts in this bill represent less than one-tenth of 1 percent of total health care expenditures .  this is a very , very good bill .  it is a very responsible bill , and it is good policy .  i am a conservative .  i came here to act in a responsible fashion , and that is what this bill does .  i encourage all my colleagues to vote for it .  and i again commend the chairman .  mr. speaker , reluctantly i stand here and oppose this legislation , primarily because we did earmark some money last year for programs , and now we are just cutting them off period , no prewarning , no salaries , no billing rent , no heat , nothing , just kicking them out .  i do not think that is the right thing to do .  if you had grandfathered those programs in , i believe it would be a lot better .  i would like to ask the gentleman from ohio , do you save any money or does the money just go back into the other programs that your committee decided ought to get funding ?  does the actual number save any money ?  does it save any money ?  yes .  just remember , you should have grandfathered those existing programs in place .  you just killed them .  mr. chairman , i rise today in support of the house of representatives ' budget plan and thank chairman nussle and his committee for their dedicated work on this legislation .  i think many of us agree that a federal budget of more than $ 2.5 trillion dollars provides enough resources for the government .  as i tell my constituents , we do n't have an income problem herein washington ; we have a spending problem .  even as our economy has grown and revenues have increased in the past year , we continue to spend more than we take in .  our house budget takes important steps to address this spending problem while ensuing that our nation 's most pressing needs are being met .  we are at war , so defense and security funding remain a priority .  much of the increased spending in the past few years has gone toward national defense and security , including $ 258 billion in extra funding since september 11 , 2001 .  our house budget matches president bush 's commitment to our national defense needs with a 4.8 percent increase .  beyond national security , this budget provides sufficient funds to meet our priorities , but it also take important steps to begin addressing congress ' spending problem .  first , our budget does not raise taxes in order to pay for more spending , as some are proposing in their alternatives .  second , our budget actually reduces non-defense and non-homeland security discretionary spending by .8 percent .  third , this budget will set us on course to reduce the growth in mandatory spending , which is growing far faster than our economy and comprises nearly two-thirds of all federal spending .  by maintaining the tax relief and not allowing for tax increases , our house budget ensures that the economy will continue to grow and create jobs .  sustained economic growth resulting from sustained lower taxes also narrows the budget deficit .  while non-defense discretionary spending is only about 20 percent of federal spending , it is the area in which congress exercises the most direct annual control .  we know there are programs that are wasteful , duplicative or unnecessary .  by reducing spending in this area by .8 percent , we force ourselves to do better at finding the waste and consolidating or eliminating the programs we do n't need in order to make the best use of the resources available .  for the first time in eight years , congress is finally dealing with the unchecked growth of mandatory spending in this budget .  let 's be clear -- despite what we are hearing from some on the other side , this budget does not `` cut '' any programs that help those in need .  more will still be spent this year than was spent last year , and by my west texas definition , that is not a cut .  what this budget does is set on the track to slow the rate of growth on the mandatory side , which is currently unsustainable .  in the last ten years , federal medicaid spending has nearly doubled , growing at an average of 8 percent each year .  even with the savings called for in this budget , medicaid will still grow by 7.3 percent over the next 10 years , as opposed to increasing by 7.6 percent .  with regard to the mandatory spending reduction set for agriculture .  i am concerned that the target in this bill is more than agriculture 's total share of mandatory spending .  as we conference with the senate , i ask that the budget committee work toward a number that is more in line with agriculture 's 4.7 percent share of mandatory spending .  what we are doing here with respect to agriculture is allowing the agriculture committee to look at all mandatory spending at usda and have full discretion on how we reach our savings total .  we can do this without `` reopening '' the farm bill .  all usda mandatory spending , including nutrition programs , must be considered .  during the first three years of the 2002 farm bill , farm programs have cost $ 14 billion less than the congressional budget office predicted when the legislation passed .  the 2002 farm bill has proven to be a very effective safety net for our producers , providing support in times of lower prices , and reducing support when it is not needed .  and even though spending will increase somewhat this year due to lower prices , total spending over the life of this farm bill is still projected to be less than was predicted .  changing the rules of the game now , and then again in two years , is not sound policy .  budget decisions we make in agriculture today will not only affect the 2007 farm bill , but they will also affect our negotiating position in the world trade organization .  if we take all of our chips off the table now , we will not have anything left to negotiate with as our trade representatives continue efforts to open new markets and reduce other barriers to u.s. products .  during meetings with constituents throughout my district , farmers understood the importance of balancing the budget , and they are willing to do their part to reduce the deficit .  however , they do not support agriculture bearing a disproportionate share of the burden .  neither do i , and i am committed to working in conference to ensure our final budget outline for the year treats agriculture fairly .  our constituents are looking to us to make responsible decisions about the use of their hard-earned tax dollars .  they are counting on us to set the right priorities and follow through on past commitments .  i believe our house budget sets us on the right path toward reducing spending , keeping our economy growing and protecting our nation .  mr. chairman , it is a pleasure to be here on the floor speaking on this subject since some may know i left this place for 16 years , and coming back to the floor of the house and having an opportunity to serve on the budget committee has given me a perspective that i did not have before .  being away from this place for 16 years gave me a little bit of a bird 's eye view of how the rest of the public views what we do here .  and i just must say that during the several years that i was embarking on my endeavor to return to this house , i was constantly reminded by the people that i came into contact with in my district as to the spending spree they believe the congress has gone on and been involved in over the last number of years .  the amount of discretionary spending that we have had in terms of its increase is remarkable .  i wish they could go back 16 years from when i left this wonderful institution back in 1989 to show what we are talking about .  this chart merely goes back to 1994 , but it shows us spending $ 513 billion in 1994 , and we are talking about now stretching our way to $ 900 billion .  i was in my office watching some of this debate , and i heard what appeared to me to be crocodile tears expressed by some on the other side about how much we are cutting .  and i guess only in this institution is a little restraint in the amount that we are spending in addition to what we have spent in the past considered a cut .  where i come from , cut is not a four letter word .  most american citizens , most of the people in my district believe that if you spent too much , maybe you ought to look on the side of spending restraint .  the response we got in committee time and time again from the other side was , why do we not just raise taxes ?  and i can not even calculate the increase in taxes they suggested to cover all the programs they want .  as part of the requirements under the budget act , the budget committee gives an opportunity for any member in the house to appear for 10 minutes to talk about any particular matter within the province of the budget committee .  and i was privileged to accept that duty for perhaps the last hour .  and i remember those coming up to talk about the community development block grant program .  they even were effective in citing a quotation from the mayor of the town in which i was born , someone whom i know .  and in response to that , i said , i think it is a worthy program , but could you please tell me , if we do not cut this , where we should find the money to fund it ?  and the response i received was , that is not our job ; that is somebody else 's job .  and that is the problem with the congress , at least as i see it .  it is always somebody else 's job .  but the job of the budget committee is to bring us , i think , some fiscal sanity by suggesting with some enforcement mechanisms , numbers within which we will live , which is no different than what we do in our daily lives and our family lives .  and all i can say is , having been gone from this place for 16 years , the image that i obtained from people on the outside looking in is , frankly , not that we have been very restraining in terms of our spending .  the average person would , i think , stand with their mouth agape at some of the conversation that has been on this floor .  we are not really restraining ourselves very badly when you look at the numbers that we have seen here .  only in washington , d.c .  could a restraint on increased spending be considered a cut .  that may be very simplistic , mr. chairman .  i am sorry for being simplistic ; but i have been away from this place for a long time , and where i come from , again , cut is not a four letter word .  and i would just ask , if people could understand , if other members could have the chance i had to leave this place for 16 years and come back and see the change , people coming to us asking for spending , no longer requesting it , but coming with the expectation that it is an entitlement in the area of discretionary spending .  it is so different than what it was 16 years ago .  it is , as we used to say , the difference between night and day .  i want to thank the gentleman , the chairman of this committee , for leading our committee and bringing forward a product which will put us on the path towards restraint , the type of restraint that not only is necessary but is expected by the folks back home .  mr. chairman , i found the rhetoric on the budget particularly interesting over the course of a wide variety of issues .  one near and dear to my heart is the issue of veterans care .  i can speak to this issue with a great deal of authority that very few of my colleagues in this body can as a member of the american legion , a member of the 82nd airborne division association , a member of the army ranger association and a member of the association of graduates of the united states military academy .  being both a former enlisted solider and an officer who served here and abroad , i am concerned that we keep our commitment to our veterans , those who have laid their lives on the line and in many cases borne a great price to pay for the freedoms that we have here to have this dialogue .  unfortunately , there is a tremendous amount of misinformation that is going around the public right now , i found this unfortunately being passed out to veterans in my own district , that completely disregards the facts in favor of what i would consider a shameless play at political power .  the facts speak to themselves .  as a former numbers person , i would like to point out that in the chart that we referenced , that spending per veteran has increased dramatically .  indeed , total veterans spending in the 2006 budget is $ 68.9 billion .  there are considerable monthly payments for veterans , and the budget provides $ 31.7 billion , an increase of $ 877 million , for veterans ' medical care and other discretionary spending .  these increases in this budget carry on a commitment to our nation 's veterans that , over the past 11 years , has been reflected in veterans spending since 1995 when republicans took control of congress .  we can see that the rhetoric from the past is hollow from when there was a democratic majority in this body and also a democratic administration .  what we have seen since republicans took control of the house is a steady increase , particularly after president bush was elected , in making sure that our veterans ' needs were cared for .  spending for veterans ' medical care has increased 85 percent , from $ 16.2 billion to $ 29.9 billion .  indeed , the number of veterans receiving care has increased from 2.5 million veterans to 4.8 million , a 92 percent increase .  the facts speak for themselves .  and , again , the shameless rhetoric is hollow .  education benefits , under the montgomery gi bill , have more than doubled during this same period and total per veteran spending has increased by nearly 103 percent .  i respect our national leadership .  i respect the leadership of our party , the leadership in this congress who has led the way , not with hollow words , but with straightforward actions to take care of the veterans in this united states who i am proud to represent .  since we took control of congress in 1995 , we have made tremendous strides in improving benefits for our nation 's 25 million veterans , and we will continue to do that into the future with new strides in technology , reaching out to cover those who have legitimate needs who have served our country and served in harm 's way .  moreover , the republican congress has expanded eligibility for medical care in 1996 and 1999 .  that has increased the number significantly .  in the end , this budget provides significant relief for veterans who have served .  i am proud to support it .  i stand with our leadership ; i stand with the veterans in this congress who are rightfully supporting this budget .  mr. chairman , i want to first start by thanking the gentleman from texas for offering this budget alternative .  i think it is a fiscally conservative , sane budget and i think it is much needed here in washington , d.c .  furthermore , i would like to thank the gentleman from iowa ( mr. nussle )  , the chairman of the committee on the budget , for putting forward a very strong , fiscally conservative , reasonable budget for the american people that is not just good for our priorities here in washington , d.c. , like funding national defense , like funding homeland security , but it is also a good way to rein in government spending and eliminate government programs that have gotten out of control and maybe are not responsive to individual taxpayers .  so i compliment our chairman in that regard .  but , mr. chairman , the reason why i address the house tonight is because we have a better alternative , a much more fiscally alternative budget put before us by the gentleman from texas .  this budget would further reduce spending , would further rein in government growth , and would take on the mandatory spending programs that are going to bankrupt our country .  what the gentleman from texas does with this alternative budget is rein in government spending and mandatory programs further , further reduce nondiscretionary spending , while at the same time funding the president 's budget when it comes to defense and homeland security , two top priorities of this congress .  but , additionally , it continues the tax cuts .  it continues returning the taxpayers ' money to them at home .  so i think it is important that we keep all those notions in mind as we vote for this budget .  i encourage those on the other side of the aisle who ask for more fiscal discipline to come on over and vote for this budget because it is a reasonable thing to do , the right thing to do .  it is the right thing to do for the taxpayers , the right thing to do for the american people ; and i encourage them to vote for the budget .  mr. chairman , i thank the gentleman for yielding me this time .  first , i commend the gentleman from north carolina ( mr. watt )  for offering a budget alternative .  i know that the gentleman and his staff , along with the other members of the congressional black caucus , worked very hard to put this budget together .  working on the committee on the budget this year , i realize how difficult it is to get agreement on the type of budget we need .  even to get a small group of people to agree on a budget is very difficult , so i commend the chairman of the congressional black caucus for putting this together and i certainly respect what the gentleman has done .  but on so many issues we have disagreement on the content of the budget .  first , i do not think we need to raise taxes at a time when our economy is trying to get its footing back .  and at a time of war , we need to fully fund defense and homeland security .  we have so many needs in this country that we have to fund and so many priorities that we must fund .  i think our budget that we produced out of the committee on the budget is well balanced .  i think it is appropriate for the time we are living , the time of war , the time of very strong homeland security needs , and we need to properly fund those items , which i believe our house budget that we produced out of the committee on the budget does .  so i am very proud of the work that the gentleman from iowa ( mr. nussle )  has done to get a balanced approach for our budgeting .  i would like to talk more about the qualities of our house budget that we have on the floor today .  i think that is why we need to pass that budget unamended .  first , our house budget fully funds the defense budget request of our president .  there is a 4.8 percent increase , which totals $ 419 billion in defense spending , and a net increase of 2.3 percent in nonmilitary appropriated accounts for homeland security , including $ 32.5 billion for the department of homeland security .  but furthermore , i think it is important that we talk about what it does for veterans .  with veterans i have a chart here today discussing , showing our increase in veterans programs and the spending we have increased in veterans programs .  there is a rapid increase in veterans spending especially during this time of war .  we are funding veterans programs appropriately in this congress .  we are funding more veterans health care programs .  we are doing more for those serving to defend our country .  the current house budget we have will increase veterans program spending to $ 67 billion .  i think that is a move in the right direction .  furthermore , spending per veteran has increased to $ 2 , 700 per veteran .  i think it is appropriate to notice the rapid rise in veterans spending .  so we are funding priorities .  this budget , although restraining nondefense , non-homeland security discretionary spending , and taking on mandatory government programs and finding savings , although slight , we are finding savings in those programs that will enable us to keep continuing to cut taxes and enable us to avoid raising taxes at the same time .  mr. chairman , as i said , i thank the gentleman from north carolina ( mr. watt )  for offering this budget alternative .  i respect what the gentleman is trying to do , but we have different ways of achieving the same result of funding the priorities and helping the american people .  mr. chairman , i do want to respond to only the big dogs eat in this house .  i am a small dog , and i think i am doing just fine .  mr. chairman , reclaiming my time , this is an interesting chart on the rapid increase in veterans spending per veteran .  i think this is very important .  we are spending $ 2 , 773 per veteran .  we are fully funding our veterans ' needs .  that is a priority of this congress .  as a small fellow , i must admit , i do think it is important that we keep our taxes low so that we can create economic growth and development which will help us fully fund our programs going forward .  a strong economy is what is going to move our nation forward , not tax increases .  i am full of charts today , my friends .  i do want to address our funding for health and for research .  under a republican-controlled congress , we have doubled funding for nih , the national institutes of health .  i think it is important to note what we are doing in health research as an american government , and the american people need to know that we are fully funding these programs to look at innovative ways to solve pressing medical issues in our country .  we have doubled the funding for nih over the last 6 years .  mr. chairman , i think i may have a chart on that .  payroll jobs have rebounded because of tax cuts .  with a weakness of the economy going into the bush administration from the clinton years and with the advent of 9/11 , we had a weakening of the economy .  but once the tax cuts took hold , we have rebounded .  we have got over 3 million jobs because of this .  beyond that , there has been reference to the fact that tax cuts have created the deficit .  that is not true .  actually , that is borne out with statistical proof here .  the largest cause of deficits between 2001 and 2004 was the economy .  and the best way to address the economy and get the economy to rebound is by cutting taxes , spurring growth , reducing regulations , empowering small businesses and businesses all across the country to create more jobs , to increase earnings .  so what we see here , the largest cause , 49 percent of the cause of the deficit , was the economy .  and because of that , we have been able to rebound .  because of the tax cuts and because of the rebound in the economy , we are reducing the deficit .  we are taking on this , and we are going to further cut taxes in order to keep spurring the economy .  mr. chairman , again i want to commend the gentleman from north carolina ( mr. watt )  for offering this alternative budget .  i do commend him for his hard work and efforts on behalf of his constituents , which are my neighbors in north carolina .  i am very proud to have him as a neighbor .  i am very proud of his leadership and the stature he brings back home to north carolina .  with that , we do have a disagreement on policy .  his version of the budget increase taxes at a time when we are just now recovering from those tough days of the late 1990s and early 2000s when our economy was soft .  i think it is important that we keep cutting taxes for years to come so that we can keep this economic growth going .  and the best way to lift people up , the best way to give people an opportunity , to give them ownership , is by allowing them to keep more of their own money .  in the last few years we have seen numerous people falling off the tax rolls because of tax cuts .  we have seen strong job growth , new businesses being formed , greater homeownership in america .  across the board every group in america is increasing in homeownership .  and i think it is important that we continue those policies to keep growth going while restraining government spending , cutting deficits , and funding national defense and homeland security .  mr. chairman , i look forward to having an opportunity to work with my colleagues from oregon and california in the near future in order to address the expansion of casino gambling to off-reservation sites .  i thank the gentleman for allowing me to address this issue of concern to my district .  in my pennsylvania district , the delaware tribes of oklahoma have filed suit in order to acquire the right to establish a casino .  their claim is based on a conveyance that allegedly occurred in 1737 before our nation 's independence .  the land that they claim is home to at least 25 local families , and also contains the binney and smith manufacturing plant , the maker of crayola crayons .  these tribes , who are based out of state , are only interested in seeing working and senior pennsylvanians gamble away their hard-earned dollars .  they are not concerned about the valuable manufacturing jobs jeopardized as a result of the displacement caused by this casino , or the fact that binney and smith/crayola makes a useful product loved by children all over the world .  i am concerned about this kind of reservation shopping , and i look forward to working with my colleagues from california and oregon and michigan and elsewhere in order to limit these tribes ' ability to build new casinos on properties not contiguous to existing reservations or on those lands where ownership is based solely on a conveyance that predates the existence of our nation .  mr. speaker , it is sunday evening , a time when those of us in the house of representatives are usually not in session .  but tonight is an unusual night and the circumstances before us are unusual .  it goes without saying that we of course are discussing the life and death of terri schiavo .  the situation that terri is in has been discussed here on this floor tonight already , and you only have to turn on the news or pick up a newspaper to learn about it .  however , as i have watched , as i have listened , as i have read the news , i have been shocked at some of the inaccurate statements that have been made about terri 's condition .  the bottom line is that once terri is dead , it will be too late to reconsider what else we will do .  the truth is terri is not brain dead .  she is awake .  she is aware of her surroundings .  terri is not on artificial life support .  no extraordinary measures are being taken .  she does need assistance in being fed , but that is not unusual .  i have a perfectly healthy 1-year-old little boy , and he needs assistance in being fed , perhaps not through a feeding tube , but nonetheless he needs help .  as i said , this is an unusual situation .  usually congress writes laws with a broad brush , but every once in a while an unusual situation will require special legislative action .  that is a situation for us tonight , mr. speaker .  tonight , the possible life or death of terri schiavo is before us .  i ask my colleagues to support this legislation , and may we as a nation continue to protect the most innocent and most vulnerable among us so that the united states of america will continue to be that light on the hill , that beacon of hope for all mankind .  mr. speaker , today members of congress have come from all over the country , wta to uphold the most essential right that any of us posses the right to life .  as we stand here today , a woman is dying .  she dies not as the result of an underlying disease or illness , but because a judge has decided that her life is not one worth living .  this despite evidence that she makes attempts to respond to her parents , cries , follows movement with her eyes .  with such evidence and her parents crying out in her defense , how can we not intervene ?  as we stand here in washington , terri is being starved to death .  we refer to the `` removal of feeding tubes , '' but let 's talk about what is really happening .  not only has a tube delivering food and water been removed , but her parents have been barred from even putting ice chips on her tongue .  yesterday , advocates were arrested for attempting to bring water to terri .  to bar parents and relatives from offering the most basic of comforts to a dying loved one is not only an egregious overreach of judicial powers it is cruel and morally wrong .  i ask , is this about removing a tube or about starving a disabled woman ?  some will argue that this is about terri 's right to die .  yet , terri has no living will , no do not resuscitate order and her husband 's claim that she would not want to be kept alive only surfaced years after she became disabled .  last week this body passed legislation that would protect all americans in cases similar to this one , but senate democrats stood in the way of that valuable measure .  now for nearly sixty hours , terri has been denied sustenance while republican leadership in both houses have negotiated the legislation before us today .  though i regret that certain members of this body and the senate , stood in the way of passing the legislation .  approved last week , i am pleased that we now have an opportunity to vote on this measure .  this bill does not ensure terri 's survival , but it does give her and her parents an opportunity similar to that which we make available to murderers sentenced to death row .  under this legislation terri 's case will be reassessed in a federal court and we expect that she will be fed once again .  it is my hope that the federal court will handle this case better than the egregious dereliction of judicial duty exhibited in the florida court .  mr. speaker , regardless of the motives of those who would remove terri 's link to life , their judgment would violate the most cherished right endowed to all persons : the right to life .  we stand today not for political purposes , but consistent with our constitutional duty to sustain that right for every citizen .  mr. speaker , i thank the gentleman for yielding me this time .  i thank the speaker , as has already been acknowledged .  it is his leadership that has brought this issue to the floor tonight , and again i commend him for that leadership .  mr. speaker , there has been much said tonight , much eloquence on both sides , about this issue .  i fear sometimes that in our effort to try to come to some sort of conclusion that we actually overthink an issue once in a while .  we think just enough to get in the way of our common sense .  i hope that is not the case here tonight .  i believe fairly deeply that life does have a purpose .  i lost my father 6 months and 6 days ago tonight .  and in his very final days , he too needed to be fed by a tube .  he needed help with his basic bodily functions , could not get out of his bed , could not take care of himself .  but in the 56 years of life i have been granted , mr. speaker , i shared the most intimate , the most profound moment i ever had with my father about 36 hours before he passed away , after he could no longer speak , after he could no longer feed himself or care for himself in almost any manner at all .  he communicated with his eyes , and he communicated with a hand on my forehead in the most profound way imaginable .  i would have regretted deeply had i been denied that moment , and i am absolutely convinced , mr. speaker , that my father would have regretted having been denied that moment as well .  outside this chamber there is a statue of thomas jefferson .  thomas jefferson was the one , of course , who told us about those inalienable rights , those rights that can not be taken away from us by anyone , those rights that come from our creator .  those rights , of course , include life , liberty , and the pursuit of happiness .  i think if we are going to make mistakes , and god knows certainly that we make mistakes , we are human , but if we are going to make mistakes let us err on the side of life , not denying life but granting life and giving every opportunity to that .  mr. speaker , we all know that there are deep emotions that are involved in this debate tonight .  and earlier many of us met with terri schiavo 's brother , and i do not think that anyone can truly convey what that family is going through .  and as a mother , a tragedy of this type is my worst nightmare .  but , mr. speaker , we , this congress , we are not here simply because we believe in our hearts that a great mistake is about to be made .  we are here because all of us , each and every one of us , americans , members of congress , we all know and we understand that the most basic , most fundamental right guaranteed by our constitution , that is the right to life .  and it is our responsibility to protect that right .  now , i interpret and a lot of people have looked at the decision by the florida judiciary and they interpret this as something that says our society , our country should be willing to accept and facilitate the murder of an adult human being , a human being who has not committed any crime at all whatsoever .  i do not think the founders of our country or our constitution would agree with that decision , mr. speaker .  i think it is entirely appropriate that the federal courts consider this matter , a matter that so clearly speaks to the core of our belief , the belief that every human being has worth , every human being has a value , and every human being has a right to live .  our hearts are with terri schiavo and her family .  our reason and our intellect are with the constitution .  mr. speaker , i thank the chairman for yielding me this time .  i also want to thank the speaker for the difficult decision to call the members back , though the difficult decision maybe was made less difficult by the circumstances .  the hard work of the gentleman from wisconsin ( mr. sensenbrenner )  over the last few days ; of the gentleman from texas ( mr. delay )  , majority leader ; the work of the gentleman from maryland ( mr. hoyer )  , who may not be on the same side as i am when we take the vote tonight , but who has certainly worked hard to see what we could do to make this work in the best possible way for the members , who were called back .  terri schiavo is in a terrible situation tonight .  she has been in a terrible situation for a long time , a situation none of us would want to be in , a situation we would not want our loved ones in , a situation we would not have to decide about , but when this happens we do have to decide .  and there is clearly a conflict between members of terri 's family about what she would want to happen .  someone observed earlier that when one is her age they probably have not written that down yet , and of course that is right .  when one is my age they probably should have written that down , and sometime in the next few days i am going to check to see what i wrote 10 years ago and if i still agree with what i wrote 10 years ago , as i suspect many of us will .  but she had not written it down .  some people seem to think she would feel much differently about this than others .  and what this legislation would do is let a judge come in and look at all the facts one more time and determine if what is happening should continue to happen .  i know others have said there is no real difference in just giving someone food and water and putting someone on incredible life support systems .  i see a difference .  i think most americans see a difference .  we will see if a judge sees a difference , if in fact we are able to give a judge that opportunity .  we are not deciding tonight anything that a family should be deciding .  we are asking a judge to come in and decide what a family among themselves could not decide .  i have heard other people here talk about family members getting together and making this tough decision .  but nobody has talked about family members getting together and fighting over that decision and what they would want to happen if that fight happened in their family .  the vote tonight will be a bipartisan vote .  this is not about democrats or republicans .  i hope this is not about politics .  i hope this is about terri schiavo .  this bill also has a study that would require us to look at other circumstances and see if we should have the broader legislation that the gentleman from florida ( mr. weldon )  and others , democrats and republicans , introduced last week .  mr. speaker , i urge that this legislation pass , that we get this done as quickly as possible .  mr. speaker , on december 3 , 1963 , theresa marie schindler was born in pennsylvania .  at the time , i was pregnant with my first child and my beautiful daughter , danene , was born 5 days later on december 8. she is my best friend and today she , too , is a mom .  i certainly can relate to mr. and mrs. schindler 's love for their daughter and their passionate fight to keep her alive .  mothers have a precious bond with their daughters .  the issues that we are discussing tonight are not because those who may speak on one side or the other are right or wrong or pro-life or pro-choice .  the issue here is what terri would have wanted .  it is not what we would want for ourselves or even our loved ones .  we should not be second-guessing a patient 's wishes .  that is not what we were elected to congress to do , nor do i believe that our forefathers would have ever wanted us to be involved .  terri schiavo 's constitutional right to make the decision she felt comfortable with is being usurped by her parents and now this congress by means of this private bill .  jay wolfson was appointed guardian ad litem for theresa marie schiavo .  i know jay wolfson and often called upon him when i was a state senator chairing the health care committee , because i knew that he could always give me an impartial review of controversial matters relating to health care .  jay wolfson 's report to governor bush and the sixth judicial circuit dated december 1 , 2003 , reviewed the court testimony and statements made by all family members .  it is important to know that the schindler family members stated that even if theresa had told them of her intention to have artificial nutrition withdrawn , they would not do it .  throughout this painful and difficult time , these same family members acknowledged that terri was in an irreversible , persistent vegetative state .  today , i burned up the phone calling health care professionals that i know back in florida .  these are people who make life-and-death decisions and realize that the 5-year-old video we see on tv of the eye blinking and apparent movements are an involuntary reflexive action known as part of the autonomic nervous system .  almost everybody in the health care profession that i spoke to are avid pro-life people , but they know the sad facts .  their comments were almost to a person , something to the effect of 15 years of being in a persistent vegetative state is far too long to suffer .  to second guess the florida legislature , florida courts , and terri 's choice is just plain wrong .  we should not be engaged in second guessing many neurologists and on-site health care profession always who have seen the patient , performed tests , and attested to the courts that terri is not going to recover .  this is a very difficult decision that i know does not come easily for any member of this body .  it is gut wrenching and reaches deep into our hearts .  my daughter , who was born 5 days after terri schiavo , is a health care professional , who , when i asked if she would want me to battle to keep a feeding tube in if she had not signed a living will , said to me , and i want the members to bear in mind that she is a health care professional who deals day in and day out with patients with feeding tubes , but the difference is that they are not in a vegetative state , her response to me was sufficient to help me make up my mind .  she said to me , no , mom .  if you really loved me , you would want me to have rest and meet the lord . '' mr. speaker , when i came here tonight , i had no intention to speak on this issue for , frankly , the most personal of reasons : a year ago my brother and i were involved in making precisely this same kind of decision where my mother was concerned .  we were fortunate .  we had been empowered by her to make that decision , we were in agreement on the decision , and the medical professionals and her minister agreed with us about that decision .  so we got to make that decision in the privacy and with the dignity that one would want for every family in that situation .  as i listen to the debate tonight , i think the opponents of this measure have made many good and interesting points .  they have talked about states ' rights , they have talked about precedent , they have discussed separation of powers , and they discussed the importance of the legislative process .  all of those are important and legitimate points , and they merit discussion .  but while we discuss them , a life is in the balance , and that is really the only immediate and compelling issue before us tonight .  what do we know about that life and about the conditions of that life ?  we know that the family disagrees about the condition , about the fate , and about the appropriate course of action where terri schiavo is concerned .  we know that she is not on artificial life support , only receiving hydration and nutrition .  we know that there is split medical testimony about her condition and her quality of life .  we know that there are issues of conflict of interest and motivation about those making the final decision .  and we know that if we do not act , terri schiavo will die .  great questions often are raised by individual cases , inconvenient cases , cases that break precedent , cases that confront us when we prefer not to be confronted .  mr. speaker , life and individual rights trump all else .  where there is doubt , we should err , if err we do , on the side of protecting the rights of any individual , especially when it is the right to life .  we should make sure that terri schiavo has her day in federal court .  it is the right thing to do , it is the decent thing to do , it is the only thing to do .  mr. speaker , i ask unanimous consent that upon entry of this order , the speaker may decline to entertain a motion to adjourn until after disposition of the motion to suspend the rules described in this order ; that it be in order at any time on sunday , march 20 , 2005 , for the speaker to entertain a motion that the house suspend the rules with respect to s. 686 ; and that such motion be debatable for 3 hours , equally divided and controlled by the chairman and ranking minority member of the committee on the judiciary or their designees .  mr. speaker , i appreciate the gentleman yielding , and before answering the question , i want to thank the gentleman for all the good work that he has been doing over the last 2 or 3 days under very difficult circumstances .  the distinguished whip has worked very long hours , and we greatly appreciate his cooperation and his consultation .  i really do thank you for that , mr. whip .  to answer your question , our intentions are to come in at 9 o'clock .  we hope to vote at midnight , and , therefore , we will have a 3-hour debate .  mr. speaker , if the gentleman will continue to yield , the gentleman is absolutely correct .  and hopefully , as the gentleman knows , every hour is incredibly important to terry schiavo .  the senate has passed the bill , so we will be taking up a senate bill and , hopefully , we will expedite this process as fast as the house rules will allow us .  i appreciate the gentleman 's question , and that is the intention .  but , hopefully , level heads will prevail , and maybe something will happen ; lightning might strike and another agreement may be made .  certainly we would not do anything without the distinguished whip 's concurrence and okay , in consultation with him , and we will keep the whip advised if there is any unlikely reason for us to come back earlier than 9 o'clock .  mr. speaker , i appreciate the gentleman from maryland 's words , but i look at it a little differently .  after reading all the records and everything , what i do know is that there is a mother , a father , a brother , and a sister that want terri schiavo to live , and they want to take care of her .  i want to thank everybody that has worked on this bill , particularly those in the senate , the democrats in the senate , the republicans in the senate .  they passed this bill unanimously .  i want to thank the democrats in this house that worked on this bill , the republicans that worked on this bill .  some have tried to make it a partisan issue .  mr. speaker , after 4 days of words , the best of them uttered in prayer , now comes the time for action .  i say again , the legal and political issues may be complicated , but the moral ones are not .  a young woman in florida is being dehydrated and starved to death .  for 58 long hours , her mouth has been parched and her hunger pangs have been throbbing .  if we do not act , she will die of thirst .  however helpless , mr. speaker , she is alive .  she is still one of us .  and this can not stand .  terri schiavo has survived her passion weekend , and she has not been forsaken .  no more words , mr. speaker .  she is waiting .  the members are here .  the hour has come .  mr. speaker , call the vote .  mr. speaker , as members of congress , we have a moral obligation to protect innocent life and not stand idly by while an activist judge seeks to use extreme measures to destroy the life of an innocent woman .  by transferring this matter to a federal court we will ensure terri is given every possible protection by allowing a federal judge to see whether her constitutional rights have been violated .  life is precious and i will always work to see that it is protected .  with so much controversy surrounding terri 's final wishes and current physical condition , i believe it is imperative that a federal court take a fresh look at this case .  i commend my colleagues from both the house and senate for working around the clock to determine a legislative solution to ensure that terri 's life and her constitutional rights are protected .  thomas jefferson once wrote that , `` [ t ] he care of human life and happiness , and not their destruction , is the first and only legitimate object of good government .  i think jefferson was right .  i welcome this opportunity to join my colleagues in this effort to help defend and protect innocent human life .  mr. speaker , it was with heavy hearts and steady resolve that we came to the house chamber on palm sunday to pass s. 686 , a carefully crafted bill with a singular purpose : to ensure that terri schiavo enjoys the same due process under the constitution as any other citizen , and to guarantee that her right to life is fully protected .  this is an extraordinary situation , one that requires an extraordinary response .  this is a life or death situation for this young woman .  terri 's parents should have the chance to have her case heard by a federal judge , and now they will .  if we make an error , we should err on the side of life .  mr. speaker , in response to the remarks a few minutes ago from the gentleman from massachusetts , i want to say that i am not sure whether or not i am on c-span , but i am absolutely sure that i am not playing doctor , for indeed i am one .  mr. speaker , i want to thank my colleagues for returning to washington on palm sunday to take up this very important issue .  as my colleagues know , we are here today in an attempt to safe the life of terry schiavo .  i particularly want to thank the gentleman from illinois ( speaker hastert ) , the gentleman from texas ( mr. delay )  , the gentleman from wisconsin ( chairman sensenbrenner ) , and the gentleman from florida ( mr. weldon )  for their leadership on this issue .  although congress can not heal terri , we do have the ability to save her from an inhumane death from forced starvation and dehydration .  mr. speaker , since terri schiavo 's brain injury 15 years ago , she has been profoundly disabled .  she is not , however , in a coma .  she responds to the people around her ; she smiles and she can feel .  terri is very much alive .  mr. speaker , listen to the words spoken just one year ago by pope john paul ii to the international congress of catholic physicians on life-sustaining treatments and the vegetative state : `` a man , even if seriously ill or disabled in the exercise of his highest functions , is and always will be a man , and he will never become a vegetable or a man animal .  even our brothers and sisters who find themselves in the clinical condition of a vegetative state retain their human dignity in all its fullness .  the loving gaze of god the father continues to fall upon them , acknowledging them as his sons and daughters , especially in need of help. '' the tragedy of this situation is that with proper treatment , now denied , terri 's condition can improve .  even though terri 's parents object to the removal of her feeding tube , the courts have rejected their pleas , and at this point it appears that all legal efforts to save her life have been exhausted , unless congress acts swiftly .  mr. speaker , i believe we have a duty as members of congress to uphold a culture of life and compassion .  terri has been incapable of making relevant decisions , particularly concerning her medical care , since she collapsed due to a potassium imbalance in 1990 at age 27 , just a few years after her marriage to michael schiavo .  terri 's parents want her to live .  the governor of florida , her state of residence , and many in the state legislature want her to live ; however , the florida court system has ruled the husband 's guardian rights should prevail .  unfortunately , his wishes have set his wife on a course of dehydration , starvation , and death .  it is important to note that terri never had the opportunity to plead her own case in court and she never executed an advanced directive or living will in writing .  terri responds to verbal , auditory , and visual stimuli , normally breathes on her own and can move her limbs on command .  as a result of her parent 's love , they have fought for years to prevent her court ordered death and have expressed their willingness to take care of her for the rest of her life .  since the florida state court has issued an order prohibiting terri from even being given food or water by her mouth , once her tube is pulled she will not die from any disease , but from starvation and dehydration .  florida law prohibits the starvation of dogs , yet will allow the starvation of terri schiavo .  florida law does not allow for physician assisted suicide or euthanasia , nor does my compassionate god fearing state of georgia .  although i am not a neurologist by specialty , my basic courses in medical school taught me that dehydration is a horrific process .  it is a process that only the cruelest tyrants in history have used to `` cleanse '' populations .  the patient 's skin cracks , their nose bleeds , they vomit as the stomach lining dries out , and they have pangs of hunger and thirst .  starvation is a very painful death to which no one should be deliberately exposed .  the tragedy of this situation is that with proper treatment , now denied , terri 's condition can improve .  even though terri 's parents object to the removal of her feeding tube , the courts have rejected their pleas and , at this point , it appears that all legal efforts to save her life have been exhausted unless congress acts swiftly .  mr. speaker , i believe we have a duty as members of congress to uphold a culture of life and compassion .  it is important that we act today to save terri schiavo 's life and uphold the moral and legal obligation of our nation , indeed this poor woman 's constitutional right to life .  in our nation of checks and balances , i believe it is time for congress to check the florida court 's decision and pass this life saving measure .  i encourage bipartisan support of this legislation because we are here , at this `` 11th hour , '' quite literally , to save terri 's life .  mr. speaker , i submit this article for the record .  this bill must be passed .  this congress is right to stand up for a woman who is incapacitated to some extent yes , but does not require extraordinary measures to live .  we must allow a thorough review of her case .  the love of her family is so great we should honor it .  starving for the truth when mary jane owen thinks of terri schiavo , she remembers a day in 1986 and the hospital in washington .  pneumonia was filling owen 's lungs .  owen can not walk and is half deaf .  at the time she was also blind .  the doctor leaned into her good ear and said , `` do n't ask for antibiotics .  pneumonia is a friend of the elderly .  it 's a great way to die. '' without enough breath to shriek , owen , in her early 60s at the time , had to speak clearly enough to let this doctor know he was fired .  `` get out of my room , '' she told him .  `` get out of my life. '' pneumonia might be a great friend to those who want to die .  owen , who took antibiotics , was later cured of her blindness and currently works as a disabled rights advocate in washington , d.c. , was n't in the mood to chumbuddy with death .  possibly , because she arrived in a wheelchair , doctors assumed she 'd prefer to leave on a gurney .  that 's why she wonders about terri schiavo , whose husband wants her out of not only his life , but her own , too .  described alternately as in a `` persistent vegetative state '' and `` a locked-in '' condition , schiavo , who has lived with brain damage since 1990 , either does or does not understand what is going on around her .  her husband , michael , says she is an empty vessel who would not have wanted to remain present in body only .  her parents and some former caregivers say she reacts to their voices , seems to recognize them .  on friday , a senate committee , trying to forestall the withdrawal of feeding , subpoenaed her , though unsuccessfully .  the action is not as silly as it sounds .  at one point , after she presumably became vegetative , terri schiavo was taken to a shopping mall .  when it comes to the disabled , or at least those too disabled to advocate for themselves , deliberation about their fates resembles property law .  michael schiavo , as terri 's husband -- who has started a new family with a fiancee -- holds the powers of guardianship over his wife .  he has persuaded a florida judge to allow hospital workers to withhold nourishment and allow terri to die .  judge george greer has declined a request by the family to allow terri to be fed and given water orally .  that is to say , terri schiavo 's parents think she can be fed by mouth and the judge in the case declines to find out if this is so .  on friday , judge greer reinstated an earlier order and schiavo 's feeding tube was removed .  one former caregiver , heidi law , has said under oath that `` on three or four occasions i personally fed terri small mouthfuls of jell-o , which she was able to swallow and enjoyed immensely. '' it is one thing to withdraw a feeding tube ; another entirely to withhold that day 's meal tray .  that is why debating terri schiavo as a right-to-die argument misses the point .  `` would it seem inappropriate at some point to emphasize that people with disabilities feel threatened by the idea that a `flawed ' life can be judicially eliminated ?  `` owen asked .  it only seems inappropriate because the arguments being made about the `` right '' of the brain dead to die are being framed around a woman whose brain death is far from proven .  the facts are these : terri schiavo collapsed in 1990 .  she has been in hospitals and nursing homes since then .  videotapes depict a young woman who seems to respond to some voice stimuli , but does not communicate .  at least three affidavits are on file from former nursing home attendants who insist terri showed some hope of making progress , but that her husband insisted she be given no rehabilitation .  one nurse , carla sauer iyer , said terri `` spoke on a regular basis , saying such things as `mommy ' and `help me. ' `` iyer said that when she put a washcloth in terri 's hands to keep her fingers from curling together , `` michael saw it and made me take it out , saying that was therapy. '' michael schiavo 's reticence could well have been an unwillingness to open himself to the cruelties of false hope .  terri 's family is convinced he wants rid of her so he can marry his live-in girlfriend and use up the $ 50 , 000 or so that remains of a $ 1 million medical malpractice settlement .  the underlying argument for protecting terri schiavo is predicated on the idea that life , at its core , is sacrosanct , something with which we interfere at peril to our own places in the universal order .  the problem with terri 's most prominent defenders is that they seem to find it easiest to defend someone who can not interfere with the debate by expressing her own views .  televangelist d. james kennedy wants a law passed .  christian defense coalition head patrick mahoney warns of a `` rescue '' attempt at the nursing home .  militia extremist bo gritz said he is going to florida to perform a citizens arrest of michael schiavo and judge greer .  none of them has pledged money to a trust fund to care for terri schiavo and , more saliently , the many more just like her .  they are in this because of their politics , which appears to be indistinguishable from their theology , which appears to be self-promotional .  owen worries that the sanctity of life issue misses the point that terri schiavo is not vegetative and not a fetus .  she falls nowhere into the realm of what medical ethicist james j. hughes described as `` socially dead. '' `` most of the people in the disability community certainly are not `pro-life ' in the classical meaning of that , but we sure as hell are against killing people with disabilities , '' owen said .  `` terri was certainly , i think , rehabilitatable in the early months and years of her travail .  how far she can come back now is a question .  but i think she should certainly be given a couple months trial before michael 's allowed to kill her. '' after 15 years of despair , a few months of hope might tell us something about ourselves .  mr. speaker , we come here with a heavy heart .  i urge the members of this house to do our duty to pass the schiavo act .  its purpose is simple -- to allow the federal courts to review this matter in the light of terri 's constitutional rights .  that 's not a lot to ask .  over the last few days , members of both parties and chambers have worked tirelessly to reach this agreement .  we hope that these efforts will help give terri schiavo new hope and a new chance at life .  we have heard very moving accounts of people close to terri that she is indeed , very much alive .  she laughs , she cries and she smiles with those around her .  she is aware of her surroundings and is responsive to them .  this is a woman who deserves a chance at life and not a death sentence of starvation and dehydration .  it is our hope that this bill will give terri a new hope of life .  it takes her case out of the florida court system and puts it in the hands of the federal court .  there , her case will be tried anew where the judge can reevaluate and reassess terri 's medical condition .  oddly enough , on this very day last year , the pope addressed a group of participants in an international congress on life-sustaining treatments .  the pope said a human being 's value and personal dignity do not change no matter what his or her circumstances .  and i quote : a man , even if seriously ill or disabled in the exercise of his highest functions , is and always will be a man , and he will never become a `` vegetable '' or an `` animal. '' i urge every member of this people 's house to carry these words in their hearts as we vote .  today , we have the opportunity to give a woman another chance to live .  it is our turn to fulfill the promises etched in the declaration of independence to make life more perfect for the pursuit of life .  i want to thank my colleagues leader delay , majority whip blunt , representative oberstar , chairman sensenbrenner and dr .  weldon for helping us to get this life saving bill together .  i want the schindler family to know that no matter what happens , our hearts and prayers will continue to be with you .  mr. speaker , as the elected representatives of the american people , we have no greater responsibility than defending the lives and liberties of the most vulnerable among us .  today , both the legislative and executive branches of the united states government are acting in concert to defend the life of one such human being , terri schiavo .  while the legal issues related to this case remain uncertain , the moral issues could not be more clear .  terri schiavo is very much alive today .  by all appearances , she is responsive to her family and still has the capacity to feel joy and pain , like the rest of us .  terri schiavo has a right to live , and we have a responsibility to help her .  with such complex ethical questions that fall between interpreting the law and saving an innocent human life , we must always err on the side of life .  president abraham lincoln said , `` i have been driven many times upon my knees by the overwhelming conviction that i had nowhere else to go. '' this week , millions of americans , many of my colleagues , and i found ourselves in a similar position .  through this action , congress is not only saving the life of terri shiavo , we are making a statement about the country we live in and the culture of life which we seek .  mr. speaker , since i was a child and to this very day on the floor of the house i have been guided by a fundamental principle that we as men and women , indeed , we as a society will be judged according to how we treat the most vulnerable amongst us .  that is the issue we face today .  i believe terri schiavo 's case must be judged in that context .  for me the following points are the most important : terri left no living will or written instructions ; terri 's mom and dad , the people that have loved her the longest and have fought so valiantly for her , want responsibility for their daughter .  i spoke with her brother who wants his parents to be able to protect his sister .  terri 's life has value and worth , and we must do everything we can to protect her rights and those of other disabled people here in america .  the law ought not to provide , should not provide , more protection for murderers guilty of terrible crimes than for an innocent woman lying in a florida hospital bed .  so today we must act on behalf of terri schiavo .  congress must act on behalf of all of those who can not speak for themselves and defend themselves .  americans believe in a culture of life , not a culture that tells the weak and vulnerable there is no place for them at the table .  there must be a place for them at our table .  we make progress towards that culture of life , one life at a time , one heart at a time .  today let us start by helping terri schiavo live .  mr. speaker , i thank the gentleman from wisconsin ( mr. sensenbrenner )  for yielding me this time .  i wanted the opportunity to address the issue of the funding that has gone in on behalf of terri schiavo , and the report that i have put together , i could easily add several hundred thousand dollars to that that have gone towards attorneys and towards the interests of michael schiavo as opposed to the interests of terri schiavo .  i would have a documented report that i would file with the & lt ; /em & gt ; & lt ; em & gt ; congressional record , except that the trust fund for terri schiavo has been sealed at the request of the attorney on behalf of michael schiavo .  so , therefore , we can not get those records .  we do not know what is going on behind the scenes .  what we know is that she has not had tests , she has not had therapy , and she has been denied medical treatment .  the attorney of record for michael schiavo happens to also have been a former member of the board of directors of the hospice where terri schiavo is now being taken care of .  and by the way , i happen to have another piece of information that flowed to me today , a gao audit looked in on that and that organization paid $ 14.8 million back in medicaid fees that were inappropriately collected .  another question we have is , we do not know whether there is a life insurance policy that would name someone as beneficiary in the event of the death of terri schiavo .  the question has been asked of the guardian several times , and he has refused to answer every time .  so we can not even evaluate the assets or the intent of the guardian .  those issues will be looked at by the court .  another issue that should be addressed , and we will hear this continually as this 3-hour debate goes on , is the allegation that 19 judges have reviewed this and 19 judges have concurred .  i have put together the full list of the judges that have heard the case of terri schiavo in the history of this , and throughout all of that i can identify judge greer , and i can identify a three-judge panel that heard her case en banc , and i can identify the supreme court of the state of florida , which we saw perform a number of times in the year 2000 , and also the united states supreme court , which simply refused or denied cert on the subpoenas last week .  so if we are going to count judges sitting en banc and if we are going to count supreme courts in totals of 7 and 9 , that narrows it down pretty much to one judge that has seen and reviewed all this case and that is judge greer .  and i believe that terri schiavo deserves her day in court .  she deserves a de novo review .  she deserves an opportunity to be heard and an opportunity at life .  i thank the gentleman from wisconsin for his work .  mr. speaker , there are doctors in this chamber , there are lawyers in this chamber , there are judges in this chamber .  i am none of those , but i am an elected member of congress .  i am also a mother .  tonight in this gallery my daughter sits .  i think of my daughter , i think of my other three children , and i think of the day they were born .  i think of the milestones in their lives and the love that i have for them .  i think of the lengths that i would go to protect my children as adults even if they had an injury .  i think of the lengths that i would go to , to care for my children .  i would die for my children .  i would do anything for them .  my heart is raw when i hear the things about terri schiavo and her mother and her father and her siblings , because i just lost my brother in november .  i think of how my life changed in an instant and all the lives of those who cared for him .  we talk about a family decision .  what about terri 's mom and dad ?  what about her siblings ?  what about the people who cared for her and nurtured her as she was growing up ?  do you not think they know what terri wants ?  when we talk about a permanent vegetative state , i am offended by that .  terri smiles and acknowledges the people that love her when they come to see her .  she cries when they leave .  how heartless are we to call somebody like terri schiavo a vegetable ?  what are we thinking ?  when we think about this case , we need to think about the message that we are sending to our children and our grandchildren .  what we do in this chamber tonight is as important as anything we have done in defending our nation , in doing the things that we do as members of congress .  when we react to the terri schiavo case , when we think about this legislation tonight , we need to think about the future and the message we are sending to our children and our grandchildren .  mr. speaker , tonight i stand with terri 's father , a man who raised up his little girl and gave his daughter 's hand in marriage with the understanding that she would be protected in sickness and in health , for better or for worse ; with terri 's mother who brought her into this world and gave her life , and to unite myself with terri 's brother who continues to struggle for his sister .  together , each of them is simply begging for her life .  none of my colleagues on the other side are kin to terri .  none of them are related or are family .  the only family she has left wants only to provide her with water and nourishment .  out of florida , there is no justice .  justice requires her judges to exercise prudence .  where is the legal analysis that weighs the issue of terri not being allowed a cat scan and further medical diagnostic evaluation ?  where is the balance of the scales of justice that weighs terri 's family 's parental rights with those of her estranged husband ?  tonight 's vote says we want a second look at this unique case .  we want mercy .  be merciful and find true bravery and justice in preserving the life of terri schiavo .  mr. speaker , pursuant to the order of the house of today , i move to suspend the rules and pass the senate bill ( s. 686 ) for the relief of the parents of theresa marie schiavo mr. speaker , i ask unanimous consent that all members may have 5 legislative days within which to revise and extend their remarks and include extraneous material on s. 686 .  mr. speaker , i yield myself such time as i may consume .  mr. speaker , federal courts have always reviewed whether or not a person 's federal constitutional or legal rights have been violated , and that is all this bill does .  it gives a federal court the opportunity to review the federal questions that are presented here .  now , if we accepted the position that has been made by the opponents of this legislation , we would not have had a civil rights revolution in this country if rural courts in the south decided federal questions that were opposed by those who were petitioning to have their civil rights protected .  that required federal judicial action .  and this country is better because of that federal judicial action .  that is all that is being proposed here today , and that is why the bill ought to pass .  now , secondly , i would like to correct some of the representations my colleague from florida has made .  terri schiavo is not on life support .  she is not on a ventilator .  she is not on any kind of artificial heart pump .  all she has is a feeding tube , or had a feeding tube until it was removed 2 days ago , and that is not life support .  that is simply requiring somebody to have the nutrition and the hydration they need as a living human being .  to starve someone to death or to have them die of dehydration slowly is one of the most cruel and inhumane ways to die , and what this bill does is it requires the reinsertion of the feeding tube for so long as it takes for a federal court to determine whether or not her federal constitutional or statutory rights are violated .  and that is reasonable , because she should not be allowed to die while the courts are determining what her legal rights are and whether anybody has violated them .  mr. speaker , i yield myself 15 seconds .  mr. speaker , in 1995 , my friend from massachusetts said , in a habeas corpus bill , `` i want judicial review in a reasonable way .  i want people who may have had their rights interfered with to be able to sue in reasonable fora. '' that is what this bill does .  he was right then .  i think this bill is right now .  mr. speaker , i yield myself 30 seconds .  mr. speaker , this bill does not make a decision on whether or not the feeding tube should be reinserted .  it does not make a final decision on the issues that are being decided in florida .  what it does do is that it says that a federal court , a judge , will review the federal constitutional and legal rights that belong to terri schiavo , and that federal judge will make a decision on federal issues , and that is all the bill does .  mr. speaker , i yield myself 1 minute .  mr. speaker , i am a little bit puzzled , listening to my friend from new york .  at 151 & lt ; /em & gt ; & lt ; em & gt ; congressional record , page h1599 , the gentleman from new york ( mr. nadler )  said , `` if a person thinks a court in a state is depriving someone of civil rights , they can go into federal court. '' and at volume 150 & lt ; /em & gt ; & lt ; em & gt ; congressional record at page h6580 , the gentleman from new york noted that without federal courts , `` obviously , the progress we have witnessed in the area of civil rights would have been , at the very least , stymied , and most likely prevented altogether. '' now , all this bill does is to allow the parents of terri schiavo to go into federal court to adjudicate her federal constitutional and legal rights .  no more , no less .  mr. speaker , i yield myself 1 minute to correct the record .  there have been statements made on the actions of then-governor george w. bush of texas .  i would like to correct the record on this .  in 1997 , then-governor bush vetoed an advanced directives bill precisely because it would have given specific legal sanction to such involuntary denial of lifesaving treatment .  an effort in the texas legislature to amend the bill to require treatment pending transfer to a health care provider willing to provide the lifesaving treatment had been defeated .  with no legal protections at all under texas law , and ongoing programs in texas hospitals denying treatment with no opportunity to even seek transfer , pro-life groups entered into negotiations with medical groups that finally resulted in the bill that , one , formalized more protections for in-hospital review ; two , gave patients 10 days of treatment while seeking transfer ; and , three , authorized court proceedings to extend the 10 days for reasonable additional periods of time to accomplish transfer .  that is what the governor signed .  mr. speaker , i yield myself 5 minutes .  mr. speaker , i have listened to this debate intently ; and the complaints that i have heard from people who are opposed to this bill , feelings that are sincerely held and emotions that are sincerely held is why are we picking on this one case , the case of terri schiavo ?  that was not my desire in the beginning , and it was not the desire of the entire house of representatives either .  wednesday night the house passed h.r. 1332 , which was a bill which i introduced that applied to everybody who is in an incapacitated state , a major protection for people who are disabled .  everybody who is disabled could get a federal review of their federal constitutional and legal rights , including that under the americans with disability act .  we had a debate on the floor , and it passed unanimously .  and there was a move in the other body to bring it up , and it was objected to ; and that is why this issue was not resolved with a general law of general application .  i hope we revisit that issue some time in the future so that we do not have to deal with a specific case again .  but we are here because we could not get h.r. 1332 passed in the other body .  i also think this is an issue of priorities , priorities of what we put a higher priority on in terms of how we provide food and nourishment to living human beings .  in florida they have a statute number 828.12 that says if you do not feed an animal you can go to jail for a year and be fined $ 5 , 000 .  so in florida an animal has a higher right than this woman , and that is a wrong priority , and this bill attempts to correct it .  no federal court has agreed to hear terri schiavo 's federal claims while her state court remedies were not yet exhausted .  now that her state courts remedies are exhausted , she has only two means of obtaining federal court review under current law .  the first means is in the lower federal court through the habeas corpus statute , and the second is by petitioning the supreme court directly .  first she can try to obtain habeas relief under the current federal law .  on friday she was denied that relief by the florida federal district court .  that denial has been appealed to the 11th circuit court of appeals which requested the briefs of her husband 's lawyers by seven o'clock tonight .  no one knows when the 11th circuit will make a final decision , and they may yet deny her habeas relief .  so time is of the essence .  in any case , even if she is granted a habeas review of her case , she faces a major obstacle in that the federal habeas corpus statute essentially requires the federal court to defer to the state court 's determination regarding the facts of this case .  so even if the habeas petition is granted , the deck is stacked against her .  second , terri schiavo 's lawyers can try to obtain relief in the supreme court .  so far her lawyers have petitioned for and been denied an emergency hearing .  her lawyers are currently pursuing an ordinary appeal directly to the supreme court , but that appeal process will extend for weeks at least ; and in any case , her appeal will likely be denied because the supreme court will generally not take a case without a lower federal court 's first establishing a record .  the bottom line is that first , the 11th circuit may yet deny terri schiavo her habeas petition .  second , even if they granted it , she would likely lose her case under the very difficult procedural hurdles any habeas petitioner faces .  third , she has already been denied an emergency review by the supreme court .  and , fourth , the ordinary review process in the supreme court will take far too long .  she will probably die in the interim .  consequently , terri schiavo 's only hope is the current bill which will guarantee a fresh review of her case in the lower federal court immediately , without any deference to state court determination and with the lower federal court issuing a stay of the state court order until it can determine the federal claims the court is required to hear under this bill on its merits .  that is what terri schiavo needs , and that is what this bill will get her , and that is why it should pass .  mr. speaker , i reserve the balance of my time .  mr. speaker , my heart goes out to terri schiavo , her parents , and family , and , yes , even to her husband .  my heart goes out to everyone who may have found themselves in a similar situation in the past or might find themselves in a similar situation in the future .  i wanted to stay back in connecticut and avoid having to cast a vote because i do not want to play god , and either way i vote i feel i am .  we all know this is a time for real thoughtfulness and wisdom and inspiration , and i believe that is what we are all trying to do .  on both sides of the aisle we ask `` let the words of my mouth and the meditation of my heart be acceptable in thy sight , o lord , my strength and my redeemer. '' sanctity of life , sanctity of marriage , sanctity of an individual to decide for themselves what should happen to their own life , i find myself wondering why is there so much focus on this life when we ignore the countless lives throughout the world who die minute by minute , hour by hour , day by day from hunger and disease that this congress could address and this congress could prevent ?  why only terri when there are others like her in our country ?  the only way this bill has any legitimacy is if it applies to all cases , not just terri 's , and that is what concerns me .  how deep is this congress going to reach ?  how deep is this congress going to reach into the personal lives of each and every one of us ?  mr. speaker , i thank the gentleman for yielding me this time .  mr. speaker , we meet tonight under extraordinary circumstances , and i for one am very grateful to the speaker and majority leader delay for bringing us back because a much-loved disabled woman in florida has been ordered to die by starvation and dehydration .  we meet tonight because terri schiavo 's family , including her parents , bob and mary schindler , refuse to allow their precious daughter , who is not in a coma nor is she terminally ill nor is she in a persistent vegetative state , to be killed by starving her to death .  disabled people deserve no less than everyone else deserves , to have their fundamental human rights protected and properly asserted .  we meet here tonight because there are serious questions whether terri schiavo 's estranged husband , michael , who has abandoned terri for another woman and has had two kids with the other woman , could be trusted as a legal guardian for a woman for whom he has sought death for many years .  let us not forget she has been in a hospice for 5 years .  my mother was in a hospice .  she had terminal brain cancer and was dying .  one goes into a hospice when they are in the process of dying .  terri was not dying .  mention was made earlier by the gentleman from florida ( mr. wexler )  that everyone agrees that terri is in a persistent vegetative state .  that 's not true .  let me remind my colleagues that no less than 14 independent medical professionals , including six neurologists , have said she is not in a persistent vegetative state .  let me also point out to my colleagues dr .  william hammesfahr , an m.d. , board certified neurologist from clearwater , florida has testified , and he has signed an affidavit as recently as march 6 of this year , and he has said ms. schiavo is not in a persistent vegetative state .  he goes on to point out that she could benefit , and i will include this full statement in the record , from medical interventions that are available right now as we meet , she could be getting therapies , medical and otherwise , that would make her situation all that much better .  all of that has been denied to her .  she has sat in a hospice to languish denied these basic medical provisions and procedures that could enhance her life .  i would hope that we would vote for this legislation .  the material previously referred to is as follows : declaration of william m. hammesfahr , m.d .  i , william m. hammesfahr , m.d .  have personal knowledge of the facts states in this declaration and , if called as a witness , i could and would testify competently thereto under oath .  i declare as follows : 1 .  i am a board-certified neurologist in private practice in clearwater , florida .  my curriculum vitae is attached to this declaration .  2 .  i have previously filed affidavits and testified in the matter involving terri schiavo .  3 .  i have personally examined terry schiavo , reviewed her available medical records , and reviewed her ct can .  when i last reviewed her ct scan i noted that ms. schiavo had significant brain tissue .  she has a large amount of viable brain tissue in her cerebellum space and cerebral hemispheres , not just scar tissue or spinal fluid .  4 .  i have previously testified , and i am still of the opinion , that ms. schiavo is not in a persistent vegetative state .  5 .  further , ms. schiavo had the ability to swallow .  when i examined her approximately two years ago , she was not pvs of mcs , she was in an alert state , able to follow commands , able to respond to language , and able to swallow .  6 .  her condition of hypoxic emcephalopathy is a type of stroke .  it is a condition i routinely treat with therapy , sometimes 50 and 60 years , after the injury .  she is only 15 years past the injury .  we routinely see major improvements within the first six months of treating such patients .  terri schiavo deserves to have the benefit of further treatment .  7 .  there have been new advances in medical evaluation and treatment for patients like terri schiavo even in just the past few years .  for example , in november of 2003 .  judge susan kirkland of the florida department of health validated the treament i have been providing victims of stroke by identifying me , during her ruling , `` the first physician to treat patients successfully to restore deficits caused by stroke. '' with my therapy , there is improvement of blood flow to the brain .  8 .  there are other therapies that could benefit terri schiavo , such as hyperbaric oxygen therapy , and nutritional therapy , that all have high success rates , and these should be tried on terri .  9 .  as a patient , terri schiavo is not in that bad of a condition to begin with .  we treat many patients who are a lot worse .  there are a lot of therapies out there that will very likely improve her condition , and they all compliment each other , so if you do them all in a series , she could get a lot better .  10 .  without a doubt , i observed terri swallow .  at a previous hearing for terri , all five physicians who examined her agreed and testified that she can swallow .  we know that because the body makes approximately 2 liters of saliva and post-nasal drainage a day and if she can swallow that , which she can because she swallows her saliva , then she can swallow food .  11 .  i believe that it is wrong and medically unethical to remove terri schiavo 's feeding tube and derive her of food and water .  at the very least , further swallowing tests should be done , and swallowing therapy used , so that terri can feed herself , without the use of the current feeding tube .  i declare under the penalty of perjury under the laws of the state of florida that the foregoing is true and correct .  executed this 06 day of march 2005 , in clearwater , florida .  william m. hammesfahr , m.d .  declaration of william maxfield , m.d. , facnm i , william maxfield , m.d. , facnm , have personal knowledge of the facts stated in this declaration and , if called as a witness , i could and would testify competently thereto under oath .  i declare as follows : 1 .  i am a medical doctor and licensed in florida and several other states .  2 .  i have extensive experience in treatment of stroke , multiple sclerosis , brain trauma , cerebral palsy , other cognitive diseases and congenital problems such as ataxia-telangectasia as well as many other diseases that are treated with hyperbaric oxygen therapy ( hbot ) .  my experience in imaging and hyperbaric medicine provide a unique background for my work in developing protocols to diagnose and treat conditions that may benefit from hyperbaric oxygen therapy , such as the current condition of terri schiavo .  3 .  a copy of my 20-page curriculum vitae is attached to this declaration .  4 .  in may of 2002 , i previously evaluated terri schiavo .  i reviewed supplied medical records , personally observed and evaluated ms. schiavo on two separate days at the request of attorney pat anderson , who was involved in the case at that time .  5 .  when i evaluated ms. schiavo i observed that she was able to swallow at that time .  she swallowed her saliva .  she did n't drool her saliva like a patient would if they could not swallow .  6 .  based on my observation that ms. schiavo can swallow , i believe that she deserves the opportunity to see if she could sustain her life by swallowing food and water .  i recommend that she receive further swallowing testing , and the right to sustain her life by eating and drinking on her own .  7 .  during my personal observation of ms. schiavo , i saw her respond to music and to her family by grimacing , moving and smiling , and turning her head .  she could not move her body very much at that time , because of stiff joints , but she turned her head toward her family and looked at them .  she would follow balloons around the room to a great degree .  these behaviors , in my opinion , are not consistent with a persistent vegetative state ( pvs ) , but are those of minimally conscious state ( mcs ) .  8 .  there have been medical advances in the evaluation and treatment of patients like ms. schiavo even in just the past several years and since the last time that i examined her .  for example , these advances include further documentation of the neurological response to hbot and now the developing field of hypoxia imagining .  having just a normal mri or cat scan is not enough for a patient like ms. schiavo .  i would recommend ms. schiavo have a spect brain scan before and after hbot .  there is a data demonstrating an improved spect brain scan after one or a few hbot sessions can provide a significant correlation as to response from a full course of hbot .  we can then determine if there is improvement in the pattern of her brain , and predict if additional hyperbaric 9 .  when i observed ms. schiavo , i noted that she did not interact with me , but she did interact with her mother and father .  she does not respond to other strangers .  she does respond to people she knows and this is not something a person in a pvs state would be able to do .  i base this opinion on my 30 years of practice in radiation therapy , and as medical director for a hospice program , where i have dealt with many patients who are in a pvs state .  10 .  in my opinion terri schiavo is mcs , because if she was pvs , she would not respond to the stimuli around her , including the music .  in my opinion , she is in a vegetative state .  11 .  without out a doubt , terri does respond and she does swallow her own saliva .  if she can do that , then , in my opinion , she can swallow liquids .  i declare under the penalty or perjury under the laws of the state of florida that the foregoing is true and correct .  executed this 6 day of march 2005 , in odessa , florida .  wiliam maxfield , m.d. , pacnm , mr. speaker , i thank the gentleman for yielding me this time .  it is precisely what the gentleman from wisconsin ( mr. sensenbrenner )  has been saying all night .  we want the venue to be a federal district court in florida to look at this critical matter from beginning to end to determine what has been missed .  there is a benefit of the doubt here that goes to terri .  she ought to get it .  we do not think she has gotten it .  let the court decide .  mr. speaker , as a pro-lifer , i have supported the efforts of the gentleman from florida ( mr. weldon )  to save terri schiavo 's life from the beginning , but as i have learned more about this case it is not just a case about traditional life debates .  normally those issues are hard , but what is happening in this case is a moral outrage .  terri schiavo is not dependent upon life supports .  she is dependent upon being fed , only she can not feed herself .  years ago , my wife , diane , when she worked at the fort wayne state hospital and training center set up a feeding training program for disabled people who could not feed themselves .  should they now die , too ?  terri swallows , shows eye movement , and seems to respond .  she is a living human being although with limited competency .  those who would let her die can overplay her handicaps , but they can not change the fact that she is a living human being who is responsive .  also , her guardian is supposed to protect the person they are guarding , not take the money intended for life support , divert it and offer no rehabilitation efforts .  many others who can swallow their saliva and who can barely do anything beyond that have received help for years .  she did not get it because most of it was spent on attorneys by her guardian who wanted to kill her .  this is a moral outrage .  her true guardian is her parents at this point .  her husband is in a compromised position .  with his fiancee and two children by that fiancee , it would be very inconvenient if she recovered .  it is an outrage what is happening .  furthermore , there are those who would say that states rights here should prevail over the right of handicapped people to be killed .  whether it be the americans with disabilities act or the medicaid that has funded her because her husband 's money that was supposed to be for her rehabilitation was going to lawsuits to kill her or whether it is a simple basic constitutional right to life , they all prevail over states rights .  let us not let easter week 2005 become the week america let a helpless , mentally disabled woman starve to death while the whole nation watched .  mr. speaker , many families have had to make incredibly difficult decisions regarding medical support for their loved ones .  as technology continues to advance , there will be even more heart-wrenching decisions ahead , and any of us could be involved in one .  the proper role of the federal government in such decisions is not self-evident to me .  certainly , we should not have congress debate , case-by-case , what action is or is not appropriate for a particular patient .  government at some level may have a role to ensure that the patient is not the victim of a spouse or family members who find the patient 's medical disability inconvenient .  my view is that when in doubt , society should err on the side of life .  i am concerned that in this case most members of congress have not had the opportunity for careful study and consideration of the issues raised .  it has come before us late , when time is short and the consequences of various steps are unclear .  here , i will vote for the bill before us .  my understanding is that the measure is narrowly drawn and will set no precedent .  it essentially provides for another look at the unusual facts of this case without dictating a result .  it is very distressing that anyone would look at these matters from a political viewpoint .  core beliefs about when life begins and ends are far too important for any such calculations .  in fact , i hope each citizen will spend time thinking about how our country can best deal with such cases and praying that we get it right .  mr. speaker , i thank the gentleman for yielding me time , and i commend him for the work he has put in over the last 4 days to try to bring this bill to the floor .  this is not the original version of the bill that i introduced about 2 weeks ago , but i think it will have the intended result .  for many people listening and watching , you may get the impression this is a dispute between the democrats and the republicans ; but there were 30 , approximately 30 democrats on the bill and i know that many democrats do support this .  i practiced medicine for 15 years , internal medicine , before i came to the house of representatives .  i took care of a lot of these kinds of cases .  and there were basically three features of this case that compelled me to feel that a federal review of the case was warranted .  and by the way , i think it has been pointed out by some of the people that preceded me , scott peterson 's case is going to get a federal review , john couey , the man who confessed to killing that young girl in florida not far from where terri schiavo lives , he will get a federal review ; but there were several features of it .  number one , by my medical definition she was not in a vegetative state based on my review of the videos , my talking to the family , and my discussing the case with one of the neurologists who examined her .  and , yes , i asked to get into the room and was unable to do so .  the other thing was this very lengthy pause , and that has also been pointed out by some of the people who have spoken , of 7 years between her original injury and when it was stated that she had prior voiced sentiments of not wanting heroic life-sustaining measures .  my clinical experience has always been that immediately family brings that up .  they do not wait 7 years .  there were other features of this case that i thought were highly unusual that warranted a federal review .  i think this is a good bill .  i encourage all of my colleagues to vote in support of it .  mr. speaker , i thank the gentleman for yielding me this time .  mr. speaker , there have been a lot of charges talked about tonight and a lot of emotion .  this is a painful process .  as a physician , i have dealt with end-of-life decisions in families as they struggle countless times .  why is this one different ?  first and foremost , there is no living will in place ; and , second , there is a fundamental disagreement between terri 's husband and her parents , two who normally would agree .  there is also a disagreement among medical experts .  now , where do we make disagreements when there are disagreements with irreversible life-changing decisions ?  a court of law .  what court ?  depends on the case .  does congress have the authority ?  absolutely .  article i , section 8 and article iii , section 1 give congress the authority to determine the jurisdiction of federal courts , and that is what we are doing here tonight .  ideally , decisions are made among families .  when loved ones disagree , our society strongly , strongly believes in individual rights and that they must be preserved .  that is why all state death penalty cases get a final review in federal court , and that is all that is being asked here .  as i sat in church this morning , i struggled with this and i prayed .  i prayed for a lowering of the rhetoric .  i prayed for a decrease in the emotion .  this is not a clear-cut case .  this is an extremely difficult case , and i ask my colleagues for caution .  it is right and just that we have a final set of eyes , objective , nascent and responsible eyes , review the case and provide that final cautious review .  it is our responsibility to ensure that right .  mr. speaker , i shall not try to influence the opinion of anyone on this issue .  i will simply share with you my opinion , the opinion of a physician of almost 41 years duration .  i am a head and neck surgeon .  i have done cancer surgery almost all of those years .  i have done much maxillofacial trauma all of those years and dealt with situations like this on numerous occasions .  terri schiavo has spontaneous respiratory activities and respontaneous cardiac activity .  she is not on life support , as we routinely define it .  she is not intubated and she is not on a respirator .  and i give the gentleman from the state of washington credit for his knowledge of the physiology of the brain stem .  he is right , it is very robust , and that certainly is one of the things that is driving her now .  but she does have some cognition and some cortical activity .  removing her gastrostomy tube will ultimately cause her demise , a commissive act that will cause the death of a human being .  how many others in this country are now in long-term care facilities with feeding tubes , but able to breathe on their own , their hearts beating strongly ?  should their feeding tubes be removed as well ?  i think not .  i believe it is wrong to remove a feeding tube from an individual whose cardiopulmonary function is stable and who has some remaining cognitive abilities .  it is unfortunate in many ways that this venue is where this issue will be decided , but removal of this feeding tube under these very public circumstances is a slippery slope down which we and the united states should not tread .  this bill deserves our support .  mr. speaker , while i was at home this weekend , my little 2-year-old girl wanted me to take her for a walk .  i looked forward to having some `` daddy time '' with her .  but before we could leave , she fell asleep on our stairway .  i picked her up , cradled her , and brought her to her bed .  as i looked at her precious little face , i thought of terri schiavo 's mother and father : how they must have cradled their little girl , loved her , watched her grow , given her hand in marriage .  but , mr. speaker , as we are all now familiar , terri 's life met with terrible tragedy .  a debilitating illness left her incapacitated , a medical system has not protected her , and a judicial system has betrayed her .  and through this all , terri 's mother and father are still there with their little girl , loving her , caring for her , asking only for one simple thing : do not starve her to death .  give her food , give her water , ordinary care for a living person .  mr. speaker , impoverished judicial reasoning has created the need for a new law , granting to terri the same right given to death row inmates to appeal .  given the complexity of who should have final say over terri 's life , an estranged husband who is now in a common law marriage , or her loving parents , it is only reasonable that additional levels of appeal be given .  mr. speaker , i wish to thank our leadership for their exhaustive efforts on terri 's behalf , for their willingness to stand for a compassionate society that protects its most weak and vulnerable members .  mr. speaker , let us join terri 's mother and father and cradle terri in the arms of a just and good decision .  mr. speaker , tonight we are taking on one of the great moral issues of our day , our basic sanctity of life , our right to life ; and what you hear tonight is a lot of emotion .  we have all had experiences with situations similar to this , or we know those that have dealt with these tough issues .  we know family members that have dealt with these tough issues of end-of-life decisions .  and tonight we as a body are wrestling with this issue .  just like america is , we are wrestling with this great issue .  but i submit to you , tonight , we are not talking simply about terri schiavo .  we are not talking simply about terri schiavo 's family .  we are talking about a greater issue : how shall we be judged as a civil society ?  and i submit to you that we will be judged by how we treat the least among us , those that may not defend themselves , the young , the mentally disabled , the physically disabled .  how shall we be judged as a civil society ?  what kind of government shall we have ?  as a federal government , i believe we have an obligation to step forward and say that we shall protect life .  even when it is tough , we shall protect life , and a woman 's right to live .  and tonight , mr. speaker , there is a woman in florida that is being starved , and we are acting tonight to preserve her right to live and give her the opportunity of a tomorrow .  i say to you , tonight , mr. speaker , this is not about terri schiavo ; it is about every one of us in this room .  it is about millions of americans across this nation .  we are all potentially terri schiavos .  mr. speaker , i urge support for this bill .  mr. speaker , i rise in support of this bill tonight with a heavy heart , as is everybody in this chamber .  i would , though , like to address an important issue that we have not talked much about , and that is the conflict of interest that i believe her husband has with respect to his decisions that are supposedly in her best interest .  i have spent a professional career as a cpa working under a code of conduct that requires me to function without conflicts of interest .  i have to disqualify myself as an auditor if i have got a conflict of interest that is in appearance or in fact .  this body has heard much about the importance of conflicts of interest , whether in the sarbanes-oxley bill that talks about the relationship of auditors and their clients , or campaign finance laws where it talks about the impact that money has on these conflicts of interest .  terri 's husband has , in my mind , a significant and apparent conflict of interest in this matter .  her husband is her guardian , and he is duty bound , in my mind , to make decisions that are in terri 's best interest .  even the most casual observer would conclude that he is conflicted .  he lives with another woman .  he has fathered two children with this other woman .  this is a conflict of interest between what is in his personal best interest and his wife and children 's best interests and those of terri 's .  we have heard much about terri 's condition tonight , but what we have not heard , though , is much evidence of her current condition , evidence such as tests and mris and brain scans and swallowing tests that we could objectively evaluate her condition through these tests .  her husband has categorically prevented this from happening throughout the last 7 years .  i do not believe the issue of terri 's husband 's conflict of interest and its impact on her condition have been given a proper review .  i have heard her brother tell us this evening about the lack of care that has been insisted upon by her husband throughout the last 7 years , simple tests , trips outside into the sunshine .  i support this bill that would allow a review of terri 's case , including the role of her husband 's decision and his conflicts of interest .  mr. speaker , i thank the gentleman for yielding .  the house will convene on tuesday at 2 p.m .  for legislative business .  we will consider several measures under suspension of the rules ; a final list of these bills will be sent to the members ' offices by the end of the week .  any votes called on these measures will be rolled until 6 : 30 p.m .  on wednesday and thursday , the house will convene at 10 a.m .  for legislative business .  we likely will consider additional legislation under suspension of the rules , as well as s. 256 , the bankruptcy abuse prevention and consumer protection act of 2005 .  in addition , we also plan to consider h.r. 8 , the death tax repeal permanency act of 2005 .  finally , i would like to remind all members that we are finished voting for the week .  we will not be in session tomorrow to accommodate members traveling to rome for the funeral services of his holiness , pope john paul ii .  mr. speaker , i appreciate the gentleman yielding .  we do not know at this point , and we will certainly advise the gentleman when we have that .  the problem is because of this shortened week , we have committees that are marking up next week that had planned to mark up this week , and we have to try to work out the schedule so that we can make it as convenient for those markups as possible .  that is correct .  the gentleman is correct .  mr. speaker , i appreciate the gentleman yielding .  i am not advised as to when we could go to conference on the budget , possibly next week .  i know the house is yet to appoint the conferees , so we have a ways to go before a conference report is completed .  mr. speaker , if the gentleman would yield , i am confident that we will have a conference .  yes , i am very confident .  mr. speaker , if the gentleman would yield , the gentleman is correct , and we are all concerned about the higher gas prices and as important as that is to higher prices of oil and gas .  we have been trying to pass or get to the president an energy bill for almost 5 years or 6 years .  we have an excellent chance of actually getting a bill to the president this year .  we have had three committees scheduled to mark up components of the energy bill this week , the committee on energy and commerce , the committee on ways and means , and the committee on resources , but due to the shortened week , only one of those was able to begin their markup .  i hope , and we are going to work very hard , and i expect that all three of those committees will complete their markups next week , and we will be able to have a comprehensive energy bill on the floor hopefully by the following week .  mr. speaker , reclaiming my time , the chairman of the committee on the judiciary is absolutely right .  we reported out a modified closed rule that provided the gentleman from north dakota ( mr. pomeroy )  an opportunity to not only offer his substitute , but he could have offered a motion to recommit .  so two bites at the apple .  the exact same opportunity existed on this bill which has gone through congress after congress with an excess of 300 votes in the past .  we said a substitute would have been made in order if it had been submitted to us in the committee on rules .  mr. speaker , that is absolutely right .  if you look at the cost that exists today because of abuse of bankruptcy law , the abusive filings of bankruptcy , there is , on average , for a family of four of $ 400 per year .  if i could reclaim my time , what i am suggesting is that because of abuse of bankruptcy filings that take place today , that is a cost that is imposed on american consumers to the average family of four of in excess of $ 400 .  that is the reason it is absolutely essential , mr. speaker , that we pass this legislation .  i have yielded three times .  if i could finish my statement , i would like to .  we have other people who would like to participate .  i know that my dear friend from florida ( mr. hastings )  will be more than happy to yield further time to the gentleman from massachusetts .  mr. speaker , we have been waiting for years and years and years to get to the point where we could get a measure to the desk of the president of the united states so that he can sign it , so that we can deal with this issue and finally bring about responsible reform of our bankruptcy law .  we happen to believe very passionately that people should be accountable for their actions .  we do not want anyone to be deprived of access to file for bankruptcy , but we know full well that this has been abused for such a long period of time .  that is why we are here today and that is why i am convinced , mr. speaker , that even though we will see opposition to this rule , at the end of the day , we will see very strong bipartisan support to reform our bankruptcy law .  mr. speaker , by direction of the committee on rules , i call up house resolution 211 and ask for its immediate consideration .  mr. speaker , for the purpose of debate only , i yield the customary 30 minutes to the gentleman from florida ( mr. hastings )  , pending which i yield myself such time as i may consume .  during consideration of this resolution , all time yielded is for the purpose of debate only .  mr. speaker , this is a closed rule providing for consideration of s. 256 , the bankruptcy abuse prevention and consumer protection act of 2005 .  the rule provides for 1 hour debate in the house , equally divided and controlled by the chairman and ranking minority member of the committee on the judiciary .  it waives all points of order against the bill and its consideration , and it provides for one motion to recommit with or without instructions .  mr. speaker , i ask unanimous consent that all members may have 5 legislative days within which to revise and extend their remarks on h. res. 211 .  mr. speaker , i yield myself such time as i may consume .  i want to point out , mr. speaker , to the gentleman from florida that medical expenses are specifically covered in the bill , and all other extenuating circumstances are covered in section 102 of the bill allowing judicial latitude .  mr. speaker , i yield myself such time as i may consume .  in the 105th congress , h.r. 3150 , bankruptcy reform , passed 306-118 .  in the 106th congress , h.r. 8333 passed the house , 313-108 .  in the 107th congress , h.r. 333 passed the house 306-108 .  in the 108th congress , h.r. 975 passed the house 315-113 .  the gentleman from virginia ( mr. scott )  was not one of those voting in the affirmative on any of those occasions , but i want to point out to the gentleman in regard to his concern over medical and health-related expenses for a debtor , spouse , and dependents , on line 23 , page 8 , continuing through line 10 page 9 , this covers the treatment of medical expenses for the debtor , spouse of the debtor , and dependents of the debtor .  it expressly includes not just actual medical expenses but expenses for health insurances , disability insurance , and health savings accounts .  mr. speaker , put another way , contrary to misrepresentations by opponents , the needs-based test not only takes into account the full range of medical expenses by the debtors , but it also covers the spouse and dependents .  this is just one of three provisions for a member of the household or immediate family .  the provision includes for the monthly expense of the debtor , expenses incurred for the care and support of an elderly , chronically ill or disabled member of the debtor 's immediate family .  this includes parents , grandparents , siblings , children and grandchildren of the debtor , among others .  so medical in any situation , mr. speaker , medical or otherwise , no debtor is denied access to bankruptcy relief .  all s. 256 says is that , in a limited range of cases , a debtor with meaningful capacity to repay may have to file in chapter 13 as opposed to chapter 7. in no case is a debtor denied access to the bankruptcy system .  mr. speaker , i reserve the balance of my time .  mr. speaker , i reserve the balance of my time .  mr. speaker , i yield myself 1 minute .  the gentlewoman from california brought up the issue about bankruptcy reform harming veterans .  in speaking to that , senate 256 needs-based test includes several safeguards and exceptions for special circumstances , including those of veterans : a specific reference to a debtor who is subject to a call or ordered to active duty in the armed forces to the extent that such occurrences substantiate special circumstances .  s. 256 means test has a special exception just for debtors who are disabled veterans if the indebtedness occurred primarily during a period when the debtor was on active duty or performing a homeland security activity .  the bill excuses a debtor if he or she is on active military duty in a military combat zone from the mandatory credit counseling and financial management training requirements .  i could go on and on , mr. speaker ; but we are addressing , as we always have on this side of the aisle , the special needs of our great veterans of this country .  mr. speaker , i yield myself 1 minute .  in response to the gentlewoman , i have got a letter from the national child support enforcement association , february 8 , 2005 , that i will insert for printing in the record .  let me just read one paragraph , the first and most important : `` the national child support enforcement association is a membership organization representing the child support community -- a workforce of over 63 , 000 child support professionals .  for the past 5 years , it has strongly supported the enactment of bankruptcy reform because the treatment of child support and alimony under present bankruptcy law so desperately needs reform .  we applaud your continuing efforts since the mid-1990s to reform the bankruptcy system and welcome your introduction of s. 256 .  the bankruptcy bill , s. 256 , like the reform bills of the last three congresses and the signed conference report of 2002 , includes provisions crucial to the collection of child support during bankruptcy. '' enforcement association , washington , dc , feb .  8 , 2005 .  dear senator grassley : the national child support enforcement association is the membership organization representing the child support community -- a workforce of over 63 , 000 child support professionals .  for the past 5 years it has strongly supported the enactment of bankruptcy reform because the treatment of child support and alimony under present bankruptcy law so desperately needs reform .  we applaud your continuing efforts since the mid 1990s to reform the bankruptcy system and welcome your introduction of s. 256 .  the bankruptcy bill , s. 256 , like the reform bills of the last three congresses and the signed conference report of 2002 , includes provisions crucial to the collection of child support during bankruptcy .  with each day that passes under current law , countless numbers of children of bankruptcy debtors are subject to immediate interruption of their on-going support payments .  in addition , during the lengthy 3 to 5 years duration of consumer bankruptcies as they happen every day under present law , debtors often succeed in significantly delaying or even avoiding repayment of child support and alimony arrearages altogether .  hardest hit by these effects of current bankruptcy law are former recipients of welfare who are owed support arrears but are stuck waiting until the bankruptcy is completed before such debts can be collected .  families who are dependent on obtaining their share of marital property for survival may now find under present bankruptcy law that such debts are discharged .  and , worst of all , under present law significant collection tools used to require the payment of current s. 256 would provide these children with first priority in the collection of support debts , allow the enforcement of medical support obligations , prevent any interruption in the otherwise efficient process of withholding earnings for payment of child support , and insure that during the course of a consumer bankruptcy all support owed to the family would be paid , and paid timely .  it will allow state court actions involving custody and visitation , dissolution of marriage , and domestic violence to proceed without interference from bankruptcy court litigation .  we , therefore , urge the members of the conference committee and the leadership of congress to enact this important piece of legislation with its long overdue bankruptcy reforms .  sincerely , margot bean , mr. speaker , i reserve the balance of my time .  mr. speaker , i reserve the balance of my time .  mr. speaker , i yield myself 1 minute .  in response to the gentleman from illinois , the reform bill significantly limits two practices that some wealthy filers use to hide assets from bankrupt creditors .  under the current system , in states with unlimited homestead exemptions , debtors can shield the full value of their residencies from creditors .  to discourage debtors from relocating to the state to hide assets prior to a bankruptcy filing , the legislation requires a 3-year residency before a debtor can take advantage of the state 's full homestead exemption .  currently , that is 91 days .  in addition , the bill adds a specific provision that prevents filers from shielding funds in an asset protection trust when fraud is involved .  in fact , these practices will continue unabated unless this legislation is passed .  mr. speaker , i reserve the balance of my time .  i object , mr. speaker .  mr. speaker , i recall yesterday when the death tax repeal was on the floor .  it was a similar rule , and the minority was offered a chance to offer a substitute .  they offered a substitute which was voted on and debated in the house of representatives .  but that rule passed by voice vote .  so the rule under which we considered the death tax repeal yesterday is the same type of rule that we are considering today , except that the minority on this bill decided not to offer a constructive alternative substitute .  parliamentary inquiry , mr. speaker .  is the material asked to be inserted covered under the general leave that was requested at the beginning of the debate by the gentleman from georgia ( mr. gingrey )  ?  mr. speaker , i move to table the appeal .  mr. speaker , i withdraw for now the motion to table .  mr. chairman , i would like to thank chairman hobson for his leadership in bringing this important legislation to the floor , and i also thank him for his continued commitment to the yucca mountain project .  as a fiscal conservative , i share his concerns regarding the federal government 's liability as result of project delays , and i would like to work with the committee to ensure the department of energy ( doe ) fulfills its statutory and contractual obligation to accept spent fuel for disposal .  to resolve this issue the committee has recommended the spent fuel recycling initiative ( initiative ) , which links interim storage to reprocessing .  i strongly believe interim storage of commercial spent fuel should not take place a doe sites like savannah river .  however , i do agree that interim storage is an issue congress and the doe should examine .  one argument posed by opponents of this initiative is that interim storage would create a `` de facto '' permanent repository , which undermines our national policy of disposing high-level radioactive waste in a permanent deep , geologic repository .  while i share the concern , this argument only has merit if interim storage is dealt with as a separate issue .  but , the committee 's report expressly states the initiative has `` linked '' interim storage to reprocessing .  moreover , this bill fully funds the yucca mountain project .  these facts read together clearly imply that the doe implementation of the initiative 's examining the merits of this initiative also requires us to review its other core element -- reprocessing commercial spent fuel .  the committee correctly notes prior to the mid-1970 's , the federal government encouraged the reprocessing of commercial spent fuel and even developed reprocessing facilities in several states including south carolina .  although opponents often cite proliferation concerns as a reason not to reprocess spent fuel , the report states `` there is no evidence that current [ european ] reprocessing operations pose a significant proliferation risk. '' equally as important , i agree with the committee that reduced volumes gained through reprocessing could avert the need to expand yucca or site a second repository .  finally , reprocessing can also reduce the radiotoxicity of high-level waste , although i agree the committee 's initiative presents our nation a possible solution to finally shipping high-level waste out of states like south carolina more quickly than anticipated , i do not believe the initiative could be implemented without further congressional authorization .  under the nuclear waste policy act ( nwpa ) , the doe 's authority to store commercial spent fuel on an interim basis at existing doe facilities expired january 1 , 1990 .  moreover , the nwpa does not allow the doe to construct a monitored retrievable storage ( mrs ) facility until yucca mountain receives a construction license .  thus , if the doe desires to implement the core elements of the initiative , i along with the committee request the doe provide to congress any necessary authority it may need to execute it .  i have no doubt chairman hobson 's intentions with this initiative are to support the nuclear power industry by ensuring we have a permanent repository for commercial spent fuel , and he is to be commended for bringing this matter to the 109th congress ' attention .  the issue of nuclear waste disposal is complex , and it will require big ideas for safe disposition of our high-level waste .  the spent fuel recycling initiative is one of those ideas , and i look forward to working with my colleagues and my constituents to ensure it is the best policy to pursue .  mr. chairman , i yield myself 2 minutes .  mr. chairman , i rise in strong support of h.r. 6 , the energy policy act of 2005 .  passage of this comprehensive bill will ensure a more affordable , environmentally friendly energy supply .  america 's prosperity and national security are at stake .  the bill before us today is a balanced bill and it is a bipartisan bill .  it will have lower energy prices over time for consumers , it will help spur our economy , create hundreds of thousands of jobs , and take unprecedented steps to promote greater energy conservation and efficiency .  the energy policy act of 2005 , among other things , improves our nation 's electric transmission capacity ; promotes a cleaner environment with new innovations on alternative power sources , the clean cities authorization , and the hydrogen fuel cell car program ; it promotes clean coal technologies , provides incentives for renewable energies , such as biomass , wind , solar and hydroelectricity .  the bill would provide leadership in energy conservation by establishing new mandatory efficiency requirements for federal buildings , and expands the energy star program to tell american consumers what products save the most energy .  the bill also provides an efficient approval process for siting new liquified natural gas facilities .  it would , for the first time , give an expedited procedure , hopefully in brownfield areas and high-unemployment areas , for expanding or building some new refineries .  we have not built a new oil refinery in this country for the past 30 years .  i could go on and on , mr. chairman , but simply let me say at the beginning of the debate that it is time for an energy policy for america .  it is time for the house of representatives to say we want a strong economy based on the world 's best and most open free market for energy supplies , and also to put some incentives in for conservation .  i strongly support the bill , and i look forward to the debate we are about to begin .  madam chairman , how much time does the gentleman from texas ( mr. hall )  have ?  madam chairman , i yield myself 4 minutes .  madam chairman , first , i rise in opposition to the dingell substitute .  i do want the record to show that i supported at the committee on rules that it be made in order so we could have a full debate .  the dingell substitute , if it were actually to be implemented into the bill and become law , would go far beyond anything currently being considered in the electricity sector .  it would increase the fines already under the bill that go up to $ 1 million .  the dingell substitute would take that to $ 5 million and in some cases $ 25 million .  i will admit with the gentleman from michigan that the current fine is insignificant .  i think it is $ 5 , 000 , and we need to increase that .  so the bill takes it to the dingell substitute does not repeal puhca .  the bill before us does repeal the public utility holding company act , but the bill before us keeps in order the reporting requirements under puhca so the sec would have the ability to maintain analysis of records and things like that of the companies that are subject to puhca .  the dingell substitute would require retroactive refunds for market-based rates .  it would go back into contracts that have already been executed and electricity is being consumed and money for that electricity has been paid , and for the first time create a retroactive refund .  i think that is unwise and unnecessary .  basically , i would say that the dingell substitute is well intentioned ; but in some cases it goes too far , and in some cases it is silent on the underlying bill .  i would hope we would oppose it and keep the base text of the bill that is before us .  madam chairman , i reserve the balance of my time .  madam chairman , i yield myself such time as i may consume for the purpose of responding to the gentlewoman from california ( ms. eshoo )  and also to enter into a colloquy with the gentleman from new hampshire .  first , let me simply say i understand the concern of the gentlewoman from california ( ms. eshoo )  about the situation in the power markets in california 4 to 5 years ago , and i know she feels more needs to be done .  as we speak , there is litigation in process to have more done in that area .  i will say on the record , hundreds of millions , if not billions , of dollars have been reclaimed , indictments have been brought , cases have gone to court and convictions obtained and people sent to jail for some of the transgressions the gentlewoman alluded to .  while it is obvious that she feels more needs to be done , i think it does need to be stated on the record that quite a bit already has been done .  madam chairman , i agree with the gentleman from new hampshire .  he and i have been working toward a solution to the contamination problem in new hampshire and across the nation .  if he is not satisfied with the solution thus far , then i am not satisfied with it either , and i agree with him that more must and will be done .  with the time that we will have to continue our already significant progress , i appreciate his commitment to reach out to other members with similar problems like his .  committee staff and i stand ready to assist in every way and are fully committed to resolving the problem before the bill is presented to the president for enactment .  i agree with that statement , also .  the principles the gentleman has outlined should be part of the solution .  i am confident that our work will adequately satisfy new hampshire and other contaminated states with problems similar to his state 's .  madam chairman , i will just say that we are in opposition to the dingell substitute and would urge a `` no '' vote at the appropriate time .  mr. chairman , i reserve the balance of my time .  in the beginning , he has some efficiency standards .  he goes through and sets some specific standards on specific appliances , dishwashers and things like this .  but on page 21 , there is something beginning on line 16 that i just do not understand and i just want to see .  the gentleman from new york may not understand it either , because he may not have had much advance work in drafting this .  the heading is administration , penalties , enforcement and preemption .  it says , `` section 345 of the energy policy and conservation act , 42 u.s. code 6316 , is amended by adding at the end the following. '' it just goes down and says if a state wants to set up a specific standard , that is fine , and that state standard will not be preempted until the federal standards established under this bill take effect on january 1 , 2010 .  i understand that .  he is saying the states can set a standard , but once the standards in the bill kick in on january 1 , 2010 , the federal standard preempts .  that is a policy debate ; we can argue that back and forth .  the next section , i do not understand , subparagraph 3 , line 16 : `` if the california energy commission adopts , not later than march 31 , 2005 , a regulation concerning the energy efficiency or energy effective after , the standards established under section 342 ( a ) ( 9 ) take effect on january 1 , 2010. '' what does that mean ?  while the gentleman is trying to get me an answer , this is the kind of thing that if we had this in regular order in a markup , there would be counsel at the desk and members of the committee of jurisdiction would ask the counsel to explain it ; and if it is a drafting error , then that could be corrected .  if it is not a drafting error , then at least the members know .  i am assuming that is a drafting error , but it may not be .  then right underneath that , we are talking about administration , penalties , enforcement and preemption on efficiency standard for appliances .  after that paragraph i just read , then you go back and just out of the blue , it says , `` in determining whether to defer such acquisition , the secretary shall use market-based practices when deciding to acquire petroleum for the strategic petroleum reserve. '' again , i am going to assume that this was a cut-and-paste effort and something got left out and that should be in another place .  am i correct or incorrect on that ?  mr. chairman , i reserve the right to object , and i will not object .  mr. chairman , i am supportive , but my understanding is that the gentleman from arizona is going to be nonsupportive .  mr. chairman , i rise in respectful opposition .  parliamentary inquiry , mr. chairman .  mr. chairman , reclaiming my time , with all due respect , this bill came out of my committee .  i mean , read it .  would i put something in there or approve something , or is there some secret language , some code word that the gentleman and i , either one , do not know ?  `` no activities funded under this section may be carried out in the state of new mexico. '' boom .  now , i am not saying the congressional research service did not tell the gentleman what he read in the record .  the gentleman is an honest man , but this is the bill .  i mean , the gentleman understands that .  sure .  mr. chairman , reserving the right to object , and i will not object , mr. chairman , simply to say that the gentleman has cleared this with the majority .  it would change the numerical number of cities that would be eligible , but it would not change the total funding , and this is an acceptable change , and we are very willing to accept it .  mr. chairman , i withdraw my reservation of objection .  mr. chairman , reclaiming my time , i am not saying that he stipulated that mbte had to be used .  i am stipulating that he knew it could be used .  and he is entitled to change his mind , change his position .  it is a free country .  but at one time he thought that mbte could help clean up the air .  that is all i am saying .  mr. chairman , i ask unanimous consent to speak out of order and engage in a colloquy with the chairman of the committee on agriculture .  mr. chairman , i thank the gentleman for raising these concerns and agree with the gentleman that market transparency is an absolute need for an affordable energy supply and that the protection of proprietary data is a must for the efficient and effective use of u.s. futures markets .  regulation of united states futures exchanges is certainly within the jurisdiction of the cftc .  i give the gentleman my assurances i will work with him on language that reflects the commodity futures trading corporation 's jurisdiction in its vital role in market transparency .  mr. chairman , i ask unanimous consent to speak out of order to engage in a colloquy with the gentlewoman from ohio ( ms. pryce )  .  the gentlewoman is correct .  the gentlewoman is once again correct .  the gentlewoman is correct , for the third time in a row .  we always thank the gentlewoman for her inquiries .  mr. chairman , i commend the gentleman from massachusetts ( mr. markey )  on his visual .  i thank the gentleman for yielding .  madam chairman , over the past several months , the gentleman from texas and i have worked toward a fair and equitable solution to the problem of contamination caused by mtbe getting into our groundwater and other waters .  i appreciate all his efforts and the faith he has placed in me on this issue which is so critical to new hampshire , a state that has been affected significantly and , obviously , other affected states .  like him , i had hoped that we would be able to have our solution ready for today 's house consideration of the energy policy act .  however , i am not satisfied that what we have agreed upon in principle is sufficient to the problem or comprehensive enough to have my support , and i would rather not rush it simply for the sake of being done today .  does the gentleman agree that spending additional time will result in an improved product that will provide a mechanism to ensure that our drinking water is clean and safe today and into the future ?  i thank the gentleman for those comments .  does the gentleman also agree that the principles we have established so far , including a fair funding system , strict cleanup standard and an appropriate amount of time for contamination discovery will be safeguarded in the final product unless equivalent mechanisms can be developed ?  madam speaker , i thank the gentlewoman and commend her for organizing this hour that we can talk about this energy bill , but we all hope we not only hope can pass on this floor but can actually in this congress become law because we have waited too long .  the american people have waited too long to have an energy policy that is a little bit more than one day at a time .  so i do , again , commend the gentlewoman .  anwr has been an issue in this congress and much of the united states for years and years and years .  when i got elected to congress in 2002 , anwr was very much on my mind because one of the first issues we talked about was an energy bill .  i had an opportunity to go up and see that much talked about , much described , very valuable piece of real estate in august of 2003 with a few of my congressional colleagues .  i have in front of me tonight a map that puts alaska in relative size to the lower 48 states in proper perspective .  anwr is in this region .  the area we are actually talking about exploring is represented by that green dot , just 2 , 000 acres .  2 , 000 acres is roughly the size of the st .  louis airport that most of us and many americans have landed in .  i have also heard that in relative size it is about like dulles , which we are all very familiar with back here in the washington , d.c. , area .  it is about the same size as the land dedicated to the dulles airport as compared to the entire state of virginia .  so we are talking about a relatively small part of a massive piece of real estate .  this map very quickly puts in perspective one other key thing , the amount of oil represented by 1 million barrels per day coming from that one small piece of real estate , and that is a conservative estimate of the amount of oil that can be generated from this anwr reserve , over 1 million barrels a day .  several other energy sources are addressed in this bill , wind power , which i certainly embrace coming from colorado .  we produce a little wind power ourselves , but so do our friends from rhode island and connecticut represented in gray by about 3.7 million acres dedicated to wind energy .  to generate the same amount of total energy is 1 million barrels of oil from anwr .  in red , down at lake okeechobee , where they utilize solar , as we do also in colorado , but some 448 , 000 acres are dedicated to solar energy generation , to again apply the energy to 1 million barrels from anwr in one day .  or in green , again the coastal plain , or in black the acreage , as i mentioned , from the lambert airport .  ethanol is in yellow .  massive piece of ground .  we have heard much about ethanol already tonight on the floor of the house .  ethanol is also of interest to the eastern plains , especially in colorado , where we grow a whole lot of corn .  i see one of my colleagues from iowa here tonight grinning a bit .  i know it is important to him .  but you see the massive amount of land acreage , 80.5 million acres that would have to be dedicated to growing corn to produce as much ethanol as we get from a million barrels of oil a day in alaska .  now , to the point i really wanted to address , and this is the point .  we ought to remember that there are precious few people who actually live in that very difficult , very hostile environment in the world , anwr , which is literally on the coast of the arctic ocean .  i went up and visited that .  if i can put this map back up , i will put it in proper perspective .  prudhoe bay , which we often talk about , is located here , again literally on the edge of the arctic ocean .  a small village of kaktovik is roughly where that green dot is .  we actually flew over in a very small plane , landed on a gravel runway and visited these people in kaktovik ; about 270 of them actually manage to survive in that very , very difficult environment .  how do they do that ?  they still hunt the whale .  they go out when the arctic ocean opens up a little bit and get in the open water and they are allowed to get three whale a year .  they fish for arctic char and they survive on them .  and , yes , they hunt and kill and eat the caribou meat , as they have for generations and generations .  that is how they survive .  i submit to this body and submit to the american people that if anyone is concerned about preserving that environment , it is these people .  not because it is pristine , not because they like the view , not because the air is very , very clean , but it is about survival .  it is about their very existence .  if that environment changes , these people have a very , very serious , life-threatening problem .  if anybody is interested in maintaining that environment unchanged , it is them .  and we all know what the environment is supposed to look like .  it looks like this for a small window of the year .  it is covered with caribou and a little bit of short grass , as i saw it in august when i was there .  and , actually , the caribou , from 1972 to current days , in about a 30-year window , have increased , not decreased .  since we did the prudhoe bay development , they have actually increased by about tenfold , a thousand percent .  and we have heard much about that .  that is how anwr looks some of the year .  this is how anwr looks most of the year .  that is not the moon , that is actually ice , and that is about all that is there .  it is frozen and it is ice covered .  how much oil is there ?  the experts , the scientists tell us that if we would develop anwr , and frankly , had we gone ahead and done it in 1995 , when congress actually approved it and president clinton vetoed the bill , today we would be bringing over a million barrels a day to the lower 48 from anwr .  how much is a million barrels a day ?  actually , they project almost 1.4 million a day from anwr .  that is almost as much as we import daily from , yes , saudi arabia , our largest single source of imported oil , almost a direct offset to saudi arabia .  now , what do the people in anwr think ?  final point .  we asked fenton rexford , who is the president of the native indian corporation that populates that little piece of real estate , well , that very large piece of real estate but very small group of people .  what should we do with anwr ?  i asked him the question .  two-word answer : drill it .  i said , really ?  he said , yes , drill it .  i said , is that what your villagers think ?  he had already told us there were 271 people living there that day .  he said , well , at least 270 of them agree .  that is close to unanimous .  one of my colleagues said , but what about the caribou ?  this was after he told us how they depend on the caribou for their very survival .  he said , what about it ?  well , my colleague said , if we happen to drill there , explore there , develop there , we might scare them off or change their migratory pattern .  and the president looked at us and he said , you are missing something here , and we all leaned forward in eager anticipation .  he said you are missing something here .  we said , what is that ?  we hunt them and kill them and they come back .  and we all said , oh , yeah , you do .  we hunt them and kill them and they come back .  you are not going to scare them off by exploring for a little bit of oil out here .  he said again , drill it .  mr. chairman , i claim the time on the majority side for the committee on science .  mr. chairman , i yield myself such time as i may consume .  in closing , i express my appreciation for the leadership of the committee on science and my colleagues on the committee for their contributions to the development of the provisions in the r & amp ; d title of h.r. 6 .  they are bipartisan , forward thinking , balanced , and speak to the importance that we as a congress place on the role of technology in our energy future .  i would also express my appreciation for the extremely professional staff of all the relevant committees , as well as the key leadership staff who worked diligently on this bill for months and in some cases years .  i want to thank the able staff of committee on science and its energy subcommittee .  their contributions and those of countless others have resulted in a better bill which i urge my colleagues to support .  mr. chairman , the chair did not ask him if he rose in opposition .  mr. chairman , i note that the gentleman from ohio included in the committee report a provision directing the secretary of energy to begin moving commercial spent nuclear fuel into interim storage at one or more department of energy sites .  i want to be sure that your intent is for the secretary to focus his attention on existing doe sites and not go looking for private sites that might be used for interim storage .  is my understanding of the gentleman 's intent correct ?  so the gentleman does not see any reason the secretary would consider a non-doe site for interim storage ?  mr. chairman , i thank the gentleman from ohio for his hard work and his courtesy .  mr. speaker , this is interesting , hearing our colleagues talk about this bill .  i think that people and many of our colleagues know that this bill has been born out over 4 years of hard work , hundreds of hearings , hundreds of hours of testimony .  it is a balanced bill .  mr. speaker , i certainly believe it is one that bridges the needs that we have today with where we need to be in the future as we look to renewable energy sources and alternative sources .  one of the things that the chairman mentioned a few moments ago is bipartisan support that we have had on some of our initiatives , and certainly we feel like we will see this on the energy bill .  we saw it in committee , and i would commend the gentleman from texas ( chairman barton ) for the wonderful work he did on the bill in committee .  over the past few weeks , we had 122 democrats that voted with us on the continuity of government bill , 50 democrats voted with us on class action , 73 democrats voted with us on bankruptcy reform , and 42 supported us on repeal of the death tax , and our real i.d .  act .  i hope this is a sign of things to come , that there will be bipartisan cooperation as we look to this energy bill , because it is a fair bill .  it is a fair rule that addresses this bill .  mr. speaker , supporting this rule and supporting this bill is good for small business .  it is great for american small business , for main street , for jobs creation .  we have an economy that has created nearly 2 million jobs in the past couple of years , 3 million jobs in the past couple of years .  we are excited about what is happening with the growth of the economy .  we know that this bill is going to do good work in continuing to support main street , support our small business community , support our small business manufacturers , and will address some of the concerns they have about energy policy , oil policy , electrical policy and how it affects the business that they carry forth every day .  mr. speaker , i encourage my colleagues to support the rule and to support the bill .  madam speaker , what a day we have had here in the house .  we have talked about energy policy .  and having an energy bill come to the floor of this house is something that we have waited for for quite a period of time .  i want to congratulate the gentleman from texas ( mr. barton )  and our colleagues on the committee on energy and commerce .  as we have had this occur today , it has been quite an effort .  our energy committee , last week we talked about it earlier in the week and we talked about it the past week .  we had about a third of the democrats in the house join us in voting that bill out of committee last week .  they did it because it is a good bill .  and they did it because it is time for us to have an energy bill , and it is the right step in the right way at this point in time .  i know that we have some across the aisle , many who are going to follow the liberal leadership there and walk in lockstep with the gentlewoman from california ( ms. pelosi )  , but i think we are going to see more of the house democrats join us to make this energy bill a reality for the american people .  i would like to remind my colleagues that over the last few weeks we have seen quite a bit of bipartisan support on some of our legislation .  we had 122 democrats vote with us on the continuity of government bill , 50 democrats voted with us on the class action bill , 73 democrats voted with the republicans on bankruptcy reform , and 42 supported our repeal of the death tax and the real i.d .  act .  so we look forward tomorrow to having our democrat colleagues from across the aisle join us as we move forward on our nation 's energy policy .  we have several members who have joined us tonight to talk about energy and to talk about energy policy .  one of those is the gentleman from texas ( mr. hall )  , and i would like to yield some time to the gentleman to talk with us about the energy bill .  i also want to thank the gentleman for the wonderful leadership that he has shown on this bill .  madam speaker , i thank the gentleman so much for his thoughts , and i thank him for his leadership on the committee on energy and commerce , and the gentleman from texas is exactly right .  this is an issue about the future .  it is an issue that affects our children , and as he said , it is an issue about the economy , about security and how we need to look at our sources of oil , our security , and many times we feel we are too reliant on foreign oil , which we are .  right now , 62 percent of the nation 's oil supply is coming from foreign sources .  if we do not take action and pass an energy bill , it is going to be 75 percent by 2010 .  so we know that action is necessary and it is needed now .  the gentleman from texas also mentioned new technologies , new ways of doing things , and that is something that certainly we have to have our eye towards .  we look at the needs for today and then as we bridge to the future .  madam speaker , i thank the gentleman for his leadership on this issue and for his diligent work on behalf of his constituents and on behalf of all americans as we are working on this bill and bringing it forward to the house , getting it ready to move forward and looking forward to the time that the president signs this into law , so that we do have an energy policy .  a couple of points i would like to highlight with my colleagues that the gentleman from nebraska brought forward to us , this bill is , as he said , forward thinking and it is now thinking , and it is important as we look at these two provisions that we realize it is this way because we have to think about small business .  we have to think about farmers .  we have to think about the impact of this on the economy .  madam speaker , as the gentleman from nebraska has said , this is about jobs .  we think about our economy .  this wonderful free enterprise system that we have in this great nation of ours has created nearly 3 million jobs in the past 2 years , and we need to continue that .  this economic engine needs to continue working .  we do not hear enough about the jobs creation that has happened .  we do not hear enough about the tax relief that has happened over the past couple of years , but we know that jobs creation is such an important part and an energy policy will serve as a boost for that jobs creation .  madam speaker , i thank the gentleman from colorado for the explanation of this .  i think it is so important for us to keep this in perspective .  we are talking about 2 , 000 acres when we talk about anwr , and it is in many hundreds of thousands of acres .  it is like putting a quarter on the dining room table , that is the relationship of that space .  so i thank the gentleman from colorado for his work on the issue .  the gentleman from idaho , who is a member and a leader on the committee on energy and commerce , has certainly worked on some of the issues dealing with refineries and permitting .  we have not had a new refinery built in the country in 30 years , madam speaker .  and as i mentioned earlier , the bill addresses our needs for today and looks toward the future .  obviously , there are some in this body who would like for us to flip a switch and tomorrow start driving hydrogen fuel cell cars and to start doing things we would all love to see happen , to look at more alternative sources .  but we have to think about where our economy is today and meeting those needs for oil and gas today while at the same time we are planning for the future .  the gentleman from idaho ( mr. otter )  is going to talk with us for a few moments about refineries and permitting and some of the points that are covered that address the needs of today and of our economy today .  i thank the gentleman from iowa for spending some time with us .  he is exactly right , madam speaker .  this is a homeland security and an economic security issue .  we realize that .  competitiveness is important .  we know , just as the gentleman said , we are meeting today 's needs .  we can not not address the needs of today .  that does require us to address oil and gas .  at the same time we have to build that bridge to the future .  this bill does that and does put the focus on biodiesel , biomass , ethanol , wind , hydropower , hybrid cars , hydrogen fuel cells , solar power , and all of those alternative and renewable energy sources so that we will have a goal of reducing that dependence on foreign oil .  madam speaker , i thank the gentleman from texas ( mr. gohmert )  for participating with us tonight .  he is exactly right .  the estimate is that 500 , 000 new jobs will be created over the next year by the changes made in the energy policy for this nation .  as i close this time that i have had tonight , i do want to certainly draw some attention to provisions of the bill , and tomorrow we hope that everyone is going to be able to talk with us and work with us as we go through the bill .  and we are going to address so many things not only with our small business , but we are going to hear about electricity transmission and capability and reliability of our nation 's electricity and the electrical sources .  everyone was concerned , and we all are , when we hear of brownouts and blackouts and the series of blackouts over the past decade .  so electricity is something that we will be addressing .  mr. speaker , i thank the gentlewoman for her comments .  as we continue with our debate , as we were saying earlier , we will be looking at electricity , and we are going to have some provisions in this bill that the federal government is going to lead on energy conservation issues .  one of our colleagues talked earlier about clean coal technology and renewable sources .  those will be addressed in the bill also .  and we will look forward tomorrow as we come to the floor to being able to continue our discussion and to draw attention to these issues .  mr. chairman , i thank the gentleman from texas for yielding me this time to speak in favor of this bill , and i thank him for his great leadership to bring this bill to the floor .  for 6 years now , the president of the united states has been saying that one of our primary failings as a country was to have an energy policy that moved forward .  for three congresses , our body has responded to that , first with the leadership of the gentleman from texas as chairman of the subcommittee , and now with his leadership as chairman of the full committee , bringing an energy bill to the house floor for three straight congresses .  what we do here today and tomorrow can be extremely important to solve the problems that we see at the gas pumps today , to solve the problems that we see if you try to buy fertilizer today , to solve the natural gas problems .  now , it will not solve these problems next week or next month , or even maybe the month after that .  if , however , we had passed the bill my colleague had brought to the floor 4 years ago , these problems we see today would not be the large problems that we see today .  and for the leadership of this chairman , the leadership of the chairman of the committee on ways and means , and the leadership of the chairman of the committee on resources , i am grateful .  i am also grateful to our friends on the other side , led by the gentleman from michigan ( mr. dingell )  .  they did the hard work they did in the markup .  while they may not have agreed with all of the final product , certainly many parts of this product benefited from the work they did on this committee .  one of the things we have done is illustrated here by a map that just shows how many kinds of fuel there are all over the united states .  we have tried to limit the numbers of those fuels in this bill , and even asked the epa to look to the future and see what that right number is .  every time you make gasoline less of a commodity and make it more of a specialty item , you increase the cost , reduce the reliability , and the access to gasoline .  we hope to move away from that .  we hope to do more things to use conservation and use renewable fuels .  this is the right step .  it is after the right time .  i wish i could say it is the right step at the right time , but , mr. chairman , it is not the fault of our committee or our body .  we need to move forward now .  i urge passage of this bill .  madam chairman , when george w. bush was running for president six years ago , he said that our country had been without a comprehensive energy policy for a decade .  we are now going on sixteen years with no energy plan for america , and it is not for lack of trying .  the house of representatives has passed energy legislation four times , only to have the bills die in the senate because of partisan politicking .  keeping the lights on should not be a partisan issue .  filling up a gas tank should not be a partisan issue .  madam chairman , gas prices are at an all-time high .  i want to thank chairman joe barton for working with me to include a provision in this bill to curb the production of boutique fuel blends and address this issue head-on .  the current gasoline supply includes specially formulated , boutique fuels which are required by law in certain communities .  when supplies are limited , gas prices rise quickly -- sometimes overnight .  for example : missourians can fill their gas tanks up in springfield and drive 3 hours to st .  louis .  when they get there , they 'll be filling their tanks up with a completely different type of gasoline .  but if st .  louis ever runs short on their boutique fuel , gas stations there ca n't sell what consumers could buy back in springfield .  the energy bill we will vote on tomorrow caps the number of these special fuel blends and allows communities faced with a shortage due to unforeseen circumstances , such as a refinery fire , a waiver to use conventional gasoline .  this plan relies on simple economics : if we create a larger market for a greater amount of gasoline , we 'll help drive prices down .  by including this proposal in the energy bill , the house is moving the country one step closer to lowering the sky-high price of gas for consumers .  madam chairman , it 's time to see some common sense at the gas pump .  i urge my colleagues to support this rule , support the underlying bill , and vote for lower gas prices and increased energy independence for america .  mr. chairman , i reserve the balance of my time .  mr. chairman , how much time do i have remaining ?  mr. chairman , i demand a recorded vote .  mr. chairman , i first want to thank chairman barton for putting so much time and effort into this legislation .  it is due to his leadership and commitment to establishing a better national energy policy that we are here today .  h.r. 6 takes many important steps .  i am especially pleased at its focus on renewable energy and i thank chairman barton for including my renewable energy production incentive ( repi ) legislation in the bill .  in addition to repi , h.r. 6 also helps homeowners across the nation through its weatherization assistance program and makes an important commitment to hydrogen fuel research , including my public transit provision , to spur the development of hydrogen vehicles and infrastructure .  teaming together with private enterprise , we can become less dependent on using fossil fuels for our homes and our cars .  but while we work towards achieving freedom from oil and those nations who produce it , the reality is we still need this resource .  to address that need and its impact on our economy , this legislation also helps expand domestic exploration .  we can take important steps in not only creating a greater sense of independence and lowering the costs at the pump , but also help our own economy and the small , independent producers who are struggling today .  we can not and should not allow our very own producers to be overlooked when resources are limited and the price of gas is rising .  my home state of california has seen its share of energy problems .  it is critical for our nation to have a national strategy on energy so we can clear many of these hurdles looming in our future .  this bill takes our country in the right direction .  again , i wish to thank chairman barton for his diligence and effort on this legislation .  mr. chairman , i thank the gentleman from texas ( mr. barton )  for yielding me this time .  the gentleman has done a magnificent job leading the committee on this new bill .  i would just say , in america we face some great challenges with regard to formulation of our energy policy .  the oil demand growth keeps rising due to the industrialization of the emerging world .  china consumes 7 million barrels per day ; and if china 's rise in world prominence is similar to that of korea and japan , china will consume 20 million barrels per day in less than 10 years .  the last big oil discovery was 30 years ago in the north sea .  china is trying to buy oil companies in canada ; india is trying to buy oil companies in russia ; the present world production capacity is 83 million barrels a day ; and we are running an estimated 81.5 million today , which means we are in the red zone .  the 14 largest oil fields in the world are 40 years old .  once they are taken out to 50 percent , water and fluids need to be pumped to keep production at existing levels .  we have some significant challenges .  support this bill .  mr. chairman , i want to thank the gentleman for engaging in this colloquy with me addressing the department of defense , dod 's concern in any decision ferc would make authorizing the siting of liquefied natural gas facilities , lng , on or contiguous to our defense installations .  mr. chairman , i know and believe our colleagues all recognize the extreme importance of our duty to ensure that our men and women in uniform are able to operate and train in an environment free of any unnecessary constraints .  should a proposal to site an lng terminal be on or adjacent to a military installation or range , i believe there would be concerns that should be addressed as to whether there may be an impact upon military operations , training and readiness .  among the factors that may impact the day-to-day operations of a military installation or range include the actual location of an lng storage and regasification unit , shipment routes , frequency of shipments , natural gas pipelines , maintenance and inspection regimes , and other activities mandated by federal and state laws and regulations .  i have spoken with the officials at the department of defense and assessing non-military impacts to installation operations and training is something they are capable of and in fact do on a regular basis .  it is my belief the department of defense should have a role in assessing the impact of such proposed sitings to be considered on or contiguous to a military installation or range .  i believe that the commission should consider the department 's evaluations so that any siting does not interfere with our military 's duties as prescribed in title 10 of the u.s. code .  mr. chairman , can you confirm that we can discuss this concern further at conference ?  i thank the gentleman .  mr. chairman , the comprehensive energy package that we pass today is a major step forward in our ability to provide certainty in the united states ' energy sector .  this legislation is the result of hundreds of hours of work developing a plan that will reduce our dependence on foreign oil , improve our economy , and create jobs .  this legislation improves our nation 's electricity transmission and reliability .  it provides for safer , stable and more reliable energy sources within our own country , making us less reliant on oil from the middle east .  clean coal technology and incentives for renewable energies are a key part to the future of energy production and consumption in this country .  domestic oil and gas exploration will make us less susceptible to the rising prices of foreign energy sources .  and let us not forget that this bill does something for american families .  as gas prices climb , it becomes more and more expensive to take our children to sports games , visit out-of-town family , and even drive .  to work .  we need relief from high gas prices and this legislation is a step in that direction .  mr. chairman , i demand a recorded vote .  madam chairman , i rise today in strong support of h.r. 6 , the energy policy act of 2005 .  wyoming is often called the energy basket of america , but people in my state who are taking out emergency loans just to fill up their pickup 's tanks would not know it .  in my home town of casper , gas is $ 2.10 a gallon ; in cheyenne it is almost $ 2.20 .  it is $ 2.30 in riverton and $ 2.40 in jackson .  madam chairman , that is just too much .  some of the people around the country who pay close to $ 3 a gallon might think wyoming 's prices are a bargain .  but remember , wyoming covers almost 100 , 000 square miles .  that is a lot of miles on the highway to do business , and a lot of money at the gas pump .  wyoming can not support subways or mass transit when we do not have masses in the first place .  this spike in gas prices has real consequences for people in wyoming whose drives to work are measured not by the length of the country and western song on the radio , but by the entire country and western album .  when our country was threatened by terror attacks on 9/11 , congress acted .  now congress is called upon to act again .  to keep our economy sound in wyoming , we must pass this energy plan .  this bill will cut our reliance on foreign energy and put our focus where it belongs , on domestic production .  would you rather get the oil we need from the middle east or from midwest wyoming ?  i know where i stand , and i have a number of bills within this package that address domestic energy production .  it seems i have spent most of my congressional lifetime helping to develop this package , so i know a little bit about it .  it will strengthen america 's standing as the nation with the most strict environmental laws on earth .  it will streamline the process to safely explore for new energy sources and put us on the road to energy self-sufficiency .  the opponents of this bill urge a `` no '' vote because it is not a quick fix at the pump .  madam chairman , since when does a quick fix actually fix anything ?  when does a `` no '' vote without an alternative actually fix anything ?  what america needs and what we have needed for a long time , for more than a generation , is a comprehensive energy plan .  i urge my colleagues to support the plan before us today .  we will see how much time she takes .  if the gentleman can see how much time she takes , and then we can give the balance to the gentlewoman from illinois ( mrs. biggert )  .  i have a gentleman from our side who wants to speak in favor as well .  we will try to accommodate the gentlewoman from illinois ( mrs. biggert )  .  mr. chairman , i ask unanimous consent each side be given 1 additional minute .  mr. chairman , i ask unanimous consent for 1 additional minute on each side .  i thank the distinguished whip for yielding to me .  mr. speaker , the house will convene on tuesday at 2 p.m .  for legislative business .  we will consider several measures under the suspension of the rules .  a final list of those bills will be sent to the members ' offices by the end of the week .  any votes called on these measures will be rolled until 6 : 30 p.m .  on wednesday and thursday , the house will convene at 10 a.m .  for legislative business .  we will likely consider additional legislation under the suspension of the rules , as well as h.r. 6 , the energy policy act of 2005 .  mr. speaker , if the gentleman will yield further , obviously we would have liked to have met the statutory deadline of april 15 , but , unfortunately , we will not .  i am advised that the speaker has not yet decided when he would like to appoint the conferees to meet with the senate , but it could occur as early as next week .  hopefully , within the next few weeks we will have a conference report for the house to consider that provides for the extension of the pro-growth tax policies enacted in 2001 and 2003 , reduces non-security discretionary spending , and provides for important reforms of entitlement programs .  mr. speaker , i appreciate the gentleman continuing to yield .  the gentleman has touched on many points .  i am advised , and i stand to be corrected , but having served on the committee on appropriations , the rules allow that once we pass the april 15 deadline for having a budget , the committee on appropriations is allowed to start their work without a budget .  i am advised also by the gentleman from california ( chairman lewis ) of the committee on appropriations , who is walking in front of me right now and hopefully will correct me if i am wrong , that the gentleman from california ( chairman lewis ) has begun the appropriations process in earnest and he has a very ambitious schedule .  in fact , i am told that we will have the opportunity to schedule appropriations bills for the floor by the middle of may , and i anticipate , not anticipate , we have set as a schedule , another way of putting it , we have turned over the schedule to the committee on appropriations to get their work done .  it will be a very ambitious appropriations schedule starting the middle of may .  mr. speaker , i thank the gentleman for yielding .  the gentleman 's original question was when will we see a conference report for the budget come to the floor .  i am hoping as soon as possible , obviously .  i have no idea when the negotiations with the house and the senate will start in earnest , when we will appoint the conference committee .  there is very little difference , quite frankly , from the house bill and the senate bill , and i would assume that the major issues will be taken care of in a matter of days , if not a couple of weeks .  so i would assume that we could have a conference report on a budget hopefully by the first of may .  at least that is what we would like to see happen .  mr. speaker , i thank the gentleman for yielding .  obviously , i can not anticipate what the committee on rules may do on this bill .  mr. speaker , i appreciate the gentleman 's concerns .  the gentleman has raised two issues : one is process and one is substance .  on the process side , the gentleman is correct .  and the gentleman would have to ask the speaker about the process of bringing the rules to the floor in a bipartisan way .  and i do not want to second-guess the speaker , and the gentleman may well have a good argument on process .  but in the substance , the gentleman is correct .  and i hope all members are watching this because they need to consider this very strongly , that the gentleman can not have it both ways .  the gentleman wants a bipartisan process .  the speaker was bringing a bipartisan process , which means that in order to proceed to an investigative subcommittee you would have to have a majority vote , which would be bipartisan , a bipartisan vote to proceed to the investigative committee .  what some partisans had found , that if there was no agreement and charges brought against a member , the member would be hung out to dry .  there would be no action , or there could be automatic action without a majority vote of the committee .  that is the problem .  that is what allows people to use it for partisan politics is that if one side or the other decides to deadlock the ethics committee , then the member that has been charged can be held out and held up for many days , if not months , before a resolution of that charge comes .  the speaker came up with a way to make sure that the committee is bipartisan because it requires a bipartisan vote to move forward .  the gentleman is suggesting that he would like to change , for the house and the rights of the members , something that is so different than the rules of procedures in courts of law .  if a grand jury is deadlocked in an indictment , there is no process that goes forward .  if there is a full jury in a trial that is deadlocked , there is no process that goes forward .  it has to be clear , without a reasonable doubt , with no reasonable doubt that the offense is right and needs to proceed .  and that is why the speaker created a bipartisan process for that to proceed .  and it can work for both sides politically .  it can work for democrats as well as republicans .  and that is why i say the speaker was trying and worked very hard to protect the rights of the accused , and more important than that , the rights of each and every member of this house .  if the gentleman will yield , the gentleman has made my point .  under the old rules , both sides could protect themselves .  if the gentleman is not going to let me respond and interrupt me , then this colloquy can end .  thank you .  i appreciate that .  as i was saying before i was interrupted , and i appreciate the gentleman yielding , the point is that both sides , in the old rules , both sides could shut the process down .  the difference is , and it is a huge difference , the members would be hanging out there and with no resolution .  and the gentleman is incorrect and misrepresents the process .  the process starts with the ranking member and the chairman looking at the facts as presented to them by the person charging the member .  and then they decide whether to submit a recommendation to the full committee to proceed further and what action should be taken .  so the facts the gentleman is talking about start with the ranking member and the chairman .  then a recommendation is submitted , just like a da would submit a recommendation to a grand jury .  and this is the grand jury process , to the committee , and the committee makes a decision whether they go forward .  now , what happens in practice is , if that member that has been charged receives from the committee that they are moving towards an investigative subcommittee , that is a huge hit on that member , whether he is guilty or not .  the press run with it and all kinds of things happen , as the gentleman perfectly knows .  so that step to go to an investigative subcommittee is a very , very important step .  and that is why the speaker thought it was really important that a bipartisan vote be made in order to get to that step .  it starts with his own ranking member making a decision , in concert , one vote to one vote , with the chairman , whether to submit the recommendation to the committee to proceed .  and that is where the gentleman 's concerns can be taken care of as to whether it is going to be blocked one way or another .  then once they have made that recommendation , if they make a strong recommendation to proceed to an investigative subcommittee , i guarantee you , because you have a republican chairman and a democrat ranking member , the committee is going to follow their recommendation more times than not , and you will have a bipartisan , and in many cases , a unanimous vote to proceed to the next step .  the problem is , and it is a real problem that was used , where you come to a deadlock , then there is no resolution for the member that has been charged .  and the speaker felt very strongly that that undermines the rights of every member of this house .  mr. speaker , i appreciate the comments by the gentleman who worked so hard on that bipartisan ethics reform taskforce that made recommendations to the house .  and i appreciate that the gentleman is trying to protect those rules that he worked on .  but i remind the gentleman that when those rules were voted on , both gentlemen from maryland voted against the rules they are trying to protect today .  and then i might say your comments are well taken .  the length of time is a problem .  we have recognized that is a problem and i am told , i have not talked to the ethics chairman , but i am told through the speaker that the ethics chairman has offered to negotiate the time problem with the ranking member .  i do not know what the result of that has been , but i know that the speaker has been informed by the chairman that he is more than willing to work on those issues , and i know the speaker told me that he is open to fixing that time problem that the gentleman brings up and is concerned about .  if the gentleman would yield .  i have to remind the gentleman , and i know going back to 1997 is very difficult , but this was not part of the rules package .  this was voted on september 18 , 1997 , and it was on the recommendations for reforming the committee on standards of official conduct , and the gentleman that worked on the recommendation and the gentleman speaking voted against the recommendations , not on the house rules package .  my point , and i do not want to belabor that for the gentleman , i think it is very important that if the gentleman is protecting a package and a rules ethics reform that he voted against , i think that is one thing .  but the other thing is we are working in a bipartisan way , i hope .  the chairman and ranking member are dealing with this .  a commission would just open up the whole recommendations that the gentleman from maryland worked on and the gentleman from louisiana worked on .  i do not think we need a complete overhaul of the ethics process , but there are certain problems that were found in practice that the speaker felt needed to be done in order to protect the members .  and i have got to tell you , the members on your side of the aisle as well as my side of the aisle better think about this very seriously because we do want to protect the integrity of the institution .  but , as important as that is , we also want to protect the rights of the members .  mr. chairman , this is a vital bill for the future of our country , and this bill provides a very balanced approach to research in the scientific areas and to energy development and , indeed , renewable energy as well as vital water projects and infrastructure for this country to keep us economically sound .  i would particularly like to commend the chairman and the staff in working with both sides here on this bill .  it could do more if the resources were available ; but given that they are not , we are making the best , i think , of what we have .  i would like to single out the energy supply and conservation account which funds renewable energy , energy efficiency , nuclear energy , nondefense environment , safety and health programs and energy conservation .  these are funded at $ 1.7 billion .  over $ 360 million is provided for hydrogen and fuel cell research .  this funding supports and expands the president 's hydrogen initiative and promotes the freedom car project .  hydrogen is the fuel source of the future and funding in this bill moves us closer to that goal .  thirdly , the committee recommends $ 3.6 billion for the office of science , an increase of $ 203 million over the budget request .  additional funds are provided for priority work on advanced scientific computing , high energy physics and operation of user facilities .  lastly , office of science funding provides for the basic building blocks of science and is the gateway to future scientific breakthroughs .  we must keep america 's scientific knowledge strong and on the cutting edge .  advanced scientific computing allows the u.s. to keep up with the rest of the world .  we can not allow other countries to surpass the u.s. 's knowledge .  i commend the chairman and i urge the passage of the bill .  madam chairman , at a time of record-high energy prices , the growth of the economy is at risk , and it is critical that congress take the necessary steps to put in place a comprehensive energy policy .  the bill before us , frankly , is more limited in scope than i would prefer .  it is not as ambitious as i would like in creating market incentives to overhaul the energy side of our economy ; but , nevertheless , support of this bill is a critical first step for congress to move forward to meet the critical goal of an effective national energy policy .  its passage will set us on the right path by encouraging the creation of new technologies , by promoting renewable energy sources , by modernizing and expanding our energy infrastructure , including our power energy infrastructure , and encouraging conservation .  i believe we need to move forward on this bill .  it is long overdue and has been a priority of congress since this president came into office .  the time has come for us to pass an energy bill .  unfortunately , we have seen the vacancy of the debate today , the fact that we are not seeing an alternative being offered by the other side .  we have heard about new ideas from them , but all we have been offered is warmed-over rhetoric , and there is no technology available to us that could ever make good use of that .  please pass this legislation .  it is long overdue .  the time has come for us to put in place a national energy policy .  mr. chairman , i thank the chairman for yielding me this time .  we appreciate the chairman and the committee 's hard work on this bill .  i want to specifically highlight the rose bay ecosystem project in florida 's 24th congressional district , which i represent .  here local , county , and state agencies have worked for 10 years now and have spent more than $ 30 million to restore our natural aquatic ecosystem of rose bay .  now this project has stalled , understandably , due to limited funds at a time of war .  in the 1940s , rose bay was a productive estuary and shellfish harvesting area on the halifax river in volusia county .  since the 1990s , local engineers and cities have anted up to their responsibility , and we would hope that the army corps of engineers would live up to the agreed-upon 5-point plan to restore rose bay .  i would ask the chairman 's help , along with the committee 's , to do everything we can to get this project back on the appropriate steps forward .  mr. chairman , i thank the gentleman for his comments .  mr. chairman , i want to thank the gentleman from ohio ( chairman hobson ) for his leadership in delivering a comprehensive and bipartisan appropriations bill to the floor today .  he has taken the responsibility as chairman of the subcommittee very seriously .  he has been to new jersey , to our home state .  he has seen the channel deepening project , and he takes a real interest in the projects found in his bill , and i thank him very much for his leadership .  on a more personal note , i also want to thank the chairman for supporting the green brook flood control project , which is in my district in new jersey .  my constituents in new jersey thank him for his commitment to this project .  i would also be remiss if i did not mention the gentleman from new jersey ( mr. frelinghuysen )  .  for more than 5 years , the gentleman from new jersey ( mr. frelinghuysen )  , as a member of the committee on appropriations , has been a champion for the green brook flood control project .  he deserves significant credit for its success and the thanks of thousands of residents whose safety and livelihood in our area of new jersey are very much at stake with the success of this project .  the gentleman from ohio ( chairman hobson ) and every member of the committee on appropriations has a considerable task and responsibility of prioritizing local projects .  there are no easy decisions , particularly in a difficult and a tight budget year like this year .  the green brook flood control project is saving homes and businesses and lives .  it is equally vital that our senators from new jersey take up the fight for this important project and finish the work that we have begun here in the house .  again i want to thank the gentleman from ohio ( chairman hobson ) , and i want to thank the gentleman from new jersey ( mr. frelinghuysen )  for their compassion and their vision and their leadership and commitment to this issue .  mr. chairman , i thank the gentleman for yielding me this time , and i rise in strong support of the energy and water appropriations bill .  first , let me thank and commend chairman hobson and ranking member visclosky for their hard work in crafting a bill that addresses so many complex national energy and water infrastructure needs .  they make a good team .  our bill includes essential funding for energy programs that seek to make our country more efficient and less dependent on traditional fossil fuels and foreign oil .  as a nation , we are facing an energy crisis which does not allow us to put off significant policy changes as to how we can invest our energy infrastructure dollars any longer .  this year , we have made a significant investment in nuclear energy technology .  this energy provides a clean , renewable energy source already capable of providing an alternative source of electricity to fossil fuels .  nuclear energy already provides 20 percent of our nation 's electricity and , in my home state of new jersey , nearly 50 percent of the electrical capacity .  i am also pleased that our subcommittee continues to fund fusion science .  our committee has been a leader in advancing fusion so that some day we will be able to realize the promise of the cleanest of energy sources .  thirty years ago the first power produced in a laboratory from fusion was barely enough to light a small light bulb .  today , our doe labs are capable of creating enough power from fusion to light a small town .  mr. chairman , i credit the gentleman from ohio ( mr. hobson )  and the ranking member for grappling with some tough policy decisions in this bill .  for example , yucca mountain , which is facing delays , this bill includes money , $ 660 million for yucca mountain , in anticipation of a licensing agreement being signed .  this bill also prioritizes the army corps ' work on a number of essential navigation and flood control projects to ensure that such construction projects authorized by congress are actually completed .  but most importantly to me and to the new york-new jersey region , in the army corps ' portfolio , this bill reflects our committee 's continued recognition of the value of our federal investment in the new york-new jersey harbor deepening project .  this project has been recognized as one of five national priorities by the president .  it is not only an issue of national security ; it is an issue of economic security .  the economic return on keeping open our nation 's third largest port to larger container ships is huge .  i note that the army corps itself has listed this deepening project as one of its highest return investments .  i can not overstate the economic importance of the port which is the third largest in the united states .  every day thousands of goods come through the port of new york and new jersey , and through its terminals many other goods are exported to the rest of the world .  those goods and the assets that protect them allow our nation to proceed and keep its economy going .  therefore , i rise in support of the bill and urge other members to do so as well .  madam chairman , i rise in strong support of h.r. 6 .  for too many years , madam chairman , our domestic energy policy has languished , driving investment overseas and increasing our reliance on foreign energy resources .  yet , we continue the cycle of tolerating irresponsible energy policies , continuing to discourage investment in domestic energy production and , subsequently , becoming more dependent on foreign sources of energy .  relying on foreign and , sometimes , hostile nations for energy and minerals jeopardizes our national security , madam chairman .  and for the safety and security of our homeland , i want the united states to be reasonably self-sufficient in meeting the demands of our current energy consumption .  h.r. 6 makes strides in ensuring our domestic security by streamlining the permitting process for renewable and traditional sources of energy , while protecting the integrity of the environmental review process .  h.r. 6 also contains provisions to spur production of renewable energies such as geothermal so we can reduce our reliance on traditional sources .  through this important legislation , we will have increased ability to utilize the vast renewable energy resources on our public lands in an environmentally responsible manner .  i urge all of my colleagues to support the passage of this legislation that will allow us to capitalize on our nation 's energy exploration and development technology , commitment to environmental quality and conservation , and work ethic to develop our domestic energy resources .  madam chairman , as i rise to the podium here , i want to bring up a poster which shows what this arctic national wildlife area really is .  first of all , let me say that the arctic national wildlife refuge is 19.5 million acres of alaska , set aside in 1960 .  also in 1960 , they set aside 1.5 million acres for exploration for oil .  that is called the area 1002 part of anwr .  this is area 1002 .  this is the area we are going to be drilling on for oil and gas .  as you can see , no big trees , no big mountains , no big herds of anything .  it is just frozen tundra out there .  but the 1002 area will continue to provide , as the usgs has already said , an estimated oil reservoir for this country that will equal the amount of oil we will get from saudi arabia for 30 years , madam chairman ; 10.4 billion barrels would make it the largest oil reserve find in the world since the nearby prudhoe bay discovery was done 30 years ago .  madam chairman , the area 1002 is not a wilderness .  it is part of anwr set aside 18 years ago for oil and gas exploration .  this is where this 2 , 000-acre surface disturbance is going to take place .  we are not talking about a pristine wilderness area that one would find in any of the southern 48 contiguous states that have forests .  so with that , madam chairman , i just wanted to bring to the members ' attention that this is not the pristine wilderness that most people have in mind .  this is a frozen tundra that we are going to disturb only 2 , 000 acres of it , and from there we are going to provide this country with nearly 10 billion barrels of new oil to meet the needs of this country 's energy demands .  i thank the gentleman for yielding me this time and for his great work on this bill .  mr. chairman , this country needs to create a new energy landscape that begins shrinking our disproportionate reliance on foreign energy sources and begins building one that places american ingenuity , producers and consumers at the forefront .  i want to highlight one provision and that is the provision that significantly strengthens the important leaking underground storage tank program .  the bill increases state funding from the lust trust fund for states containing a larger number of tanks or whose leaking tanks present a greater threat to groundwater , it requires onsite inspections of underground storage tanks every 3 years , it institutes operator training requirements for tank owners and operators , and the legislation allows states to stop deliveries of fuel to noncompliant regulated tanks in order to achieve legal enforcement .  these are all strong recommendations not only made by the general accounting office , but they have also been previously passed by the house .  they are proenvironment , antipolluter provisions .  i urge their support and the support of the bill .  mr. chairman , i rise to congratulate my good friend , the gentleman from texas ( mr. barton )  , the chairman of the committee on energy and commerce , for his leadership in forging a comprehensive , cohesive energy policy for our nation .  i also applaud the chairman for his attempts to ensure a reliable , efficient , and affordable energy supply .  we all can agree that a transparent energy market is essential to achieving the overall goals of this bill .  i am concerned , however , mr. chairman , that the current language in title 12 , specifically section 1281 , weakens the protections afforded the sensitive and proprietary information used to determine energy prices .  mr. chairman , i seek the assurance of the gentleman from texas ( mr. barton )  that he will work with me and concerned others on language that clarifies the commodity futures trading commission 's exclusive jurisdiction with respect to accounts , agreements , and transactions involving commodity futures and options .  the cftc has a long history of sharing futures and options trading data with other federal and state regulators that agree to abide by the public disclosure restrictions found in section 8 of the commodity exchange act .  mr. chairman , i thank the gentleman from texas .  mr. chairman , today congress took a significant step in establishing a comprehensive national energy plan to help lower gas prices and improve the reliability and accessibility of energy in wisconsin .  this legislation contains language i strongly support to reduce the price spikes caused by `` boutique fuels '' and helps expand the domestic supply of oil and gas .  this energy bill requires five billion gallons of renewable fuel to be included in all gasoline sold in the united states by 2015 .  this increased use of ethanol will save 1.3 billion barrels of oil by 2016 while helping support our rural economy .  our nation 's electricity grid will also see considerable improvement .  the bill provides for enforceable mechanisms to ensure reliability and stop future blackouts .  although i am generally pleased by the passage of the energy bill , it nevertheless contains some disappointing provisions , and i will be working expeditiously in the weeks to come to improve the bill even further .  in particular , i plan to push for the inclusion of a ban on oil and gas drilling in the great lakes .  the great lakes represent a critical and treasured part of our environment , our economy and our identity .  the risks drilling poses to the lakes are unacceptable .  i will also continue to lend my support to the effort to remove special liability protections for mtbe .  we unfortunately came up short today to strip this mtbe language , but i 'll keep up the fight until this provision is removed .  the manufacturers of mtbe should not be shielded from their responsibility to clean up contaminated groundwater .  mr. speaker , i thank the gentleman from dallas for his very capable handling of this rule .  we have to have this rule .  this rule spawns h.r. 6 , and i feel very strongly that the time has come and gone several times for congress to pass a comprehensive energy bill .  there is not any better time to do it than today , but from this very next vote we are going to vote to give the president a bill to sign into law .  this rule makes that possible .  i do not know about the rest of my colleagues , i am not positive about them , but i have been receiving a lot of phone calls from my constituents expressing their concern about the high cost of the gasoline .  according to the department of energy , the energy information administration , a gallon of gasoline has gone up 42 cents from this very time last year , a year ago .  this is real money and that adds up .  and i , for one , would like to see us be able to go home this weekend and tell our constituents that we are one step closer to a little relief , and i can not do that without this rule .  while h.r. 6 is not going to give us $ 1 a gallon gas the moment this is passed into law , it is a very important first step toward bringing down the price of gasoline by allowing the production of more domestic oil and by fostering greater conservation of energy , thus increasing supply and lowering demand .  gas prices are high now in part because we have had no comprehensive national energy policy for the past few decades .  we can not afford to watch another 10 years go by without acting .  we need this rule today .  we can not let our country to get into a situation where we are absolutely dependent on foreign sources of oil ; without this rule we are dependent .  we are already certainly currently today dependent on foreign sources for 62 percent of our nation 's supply .  by 2010 , that percentage is projected to grow to 75 percent .  this is unacceptable .  h.r. 6 will decrease our country 's dependence on foreign oil by increasing domestic gas and oil exploration and development on nonpark federal lands .  i am particularly pleased about the inclusion of language to open part of anwr .  this rule makes this possible .  according to the energy department , this coastal plain is the largest unexplored , potentially onshore basin in the united states .  the u.s. geological survey estimates that there are $ 16 billion barrels of recoverable oil there .  now hear this : this is enough oil to offset all saudi imports for the next 30 years .  even better , oil could be developed in anwr as soon as 3 years from the first lease sale , and none of it would be available for export .  it would all be used at home .  of equal importance to me in this bill is my provision on ultra-deepwater and unconventional onshore natural gas .  the program created by this legislation will foster the development of new technologies to increase domestic natural gas and oil production , increase domestic oil supplies , and pay for itself through increased royalties , amongst other benefits .  according to an analysis by the energy information administration , this program will increase production of natural gas by 3.8 trillion cubic feet and oil by 850 million barrels , increase federal royalties in more than sufficient amounts to pay for the effort , and lower the price of both fuels , but not without this bill .  an analysis by the bureau of economic geology at the university of texas says this will come back to us , five to one .  it is time to save this generation of youngsters and help them be able to say what university am i going to enter rather than what branch of service am i going to have to enter to get energy , when we have plenty here at home if we could mine it .  this is a good bill and a good rule , a bill that has been worked on and debated for five years .  its purpose is to promote conservation , reduce our dependence on foreign oil , improve our economy and create new jobs and probably keep our young men and women from having to fight a war for energy when we have enough energy at home if we pass this bill .  i 'm proud to support it and i urge my colleagues to do the same by voting yes on this rule .  mr. chairman , i move that the committee do now rise .  the motion was agreed to .  accordingly , the committee rose ; and the speaker pro tempore ( mr. lahood )  having assumed the chair , mr. simpson , acting chairman of the committee of the whole house on the state of the union , reported that that committee , having had under consideration the bill ( h.r. 6 ) to ensure jobs for our future with secure , affordable , and reliable energy , had come to no resolution thereon .  madam speaker , i thank the gentlewoman from tennessee ( mrs. blackburn )  .  i think this week and this day and tomorrow are probably two of the most important days to the youth of our country because we are discussing an energy bill , an energy bill that might just lay out what their future might be .  if i had a youngster who was a sophomore in high school , a junior or maybe a senior , i would be very concerned about their future if we do not solve our energy problems .  today and tomorrow i think the most important bill that is going to come before this congress is going to be decided , and i think we are going to pass it .  we are going to send it over to the senate .  we are going to go to work on the senate to try to get those two votes that we have not been able to get in 4 years over there , 4 years .  we have to make this out as a generational bill because we are talking about a generation of youngsters that might have to all go overseas to fight a war to bring us some energy here .  it is a shame if they have to do that when we have plenty of energy right here at home .  i know that back in the early days , and i go back to history sometimes , if you look at the past and see that we should not make the mistakes of the past ; but sometimes they light a light for us to see what happened and see what caused it to happen .  back in the 1940s , back in the late 1930s , we had a president named franklin delano roosevelt .  he made a lot of great speeches .  one of the great speeches he made was about fear , about the great depression .  he said , `` the only thing we have to fear is fear itself. '' and he led us out of that depression .  but one of the other speeches that he made that scholars have noted and many people have listened to and many have used it as a part of their thrust in their discussion , he said , `` to some generations much is given , of some generations much is expected , but this generation has a rendezvous with destiny. '' that rendezvous with destiny turned out to be world war ii .  as we listened on our philco radios , we heard him make these speeches .  he spoke those words .  he spoke those words following the action of cordell hull , who was secretary of state then ; henry stimson , secretary of war .  they had both cut japan off from energy .  we supplied them their entire energy thrust and they depended on us for it .  when we cut them off , we should have known that they had to break out and go somewhere .  they had to go south into malaysia .  they had to have energy because the country of japan , who did not hate this country , admiral perry had opened them up to trade earlier , but they were forced to go south into malaysia or do something because they had to have energy .  that was an energy war ; there is no question about it .  i think , as they did when they cut that off with japan , having 13 months ' national existence , war was inevitable and that was an energy war .  sometime later the fuehrer , adolf hitler , went into the ploesti oil fields .  he went east into the ploesti oil fields .  their tanks and their airplanes were out of fuel .  they had to go east .  that was a battle for energy .  energy caused that action .  then george bush , the father of our present president , just some 10 or 11 years ago sent 450 , 000 youngsters over to the desert in iraq .  that was a war for energy .  not because we did not like the emir of kuwait or we wanted to help him for some reason .  it was a war to keep a bad guy named saddam hussein , who is now in a cage , from getting his foot on half the known energy sources in the entire world .  nations will fight for energy ; there is no question about that .  but we do not have to because we can solve our own problems .  with this bill , h.r. 6 , we can prevent a war .  we can drill on anwr .  we can drill up to the depths of the gulf .  we can go down 5- or 6 , 000 feet or 10 , 000 feet but we can not get it back up .  but with technology we can do that .  that is provided for in this bill .  we certainly can have energy if we pass this bill .  and then our youngsters can say with a great bit of courage and great bit of hope in their voice , what school am i going to attend , rather than what branch of service am i going to have to enter .  this country will fight for energy .  we do not have to .  this congress has to fight for h.r. 6 .  we have to pass h.r. 6 , and if we do that , our youngsters will not have to fight that war that the past has indicated could happen .  that is our understanding , mr. chairman .  mr. chairman , i demand a recorded vote .  madam chairman , i thank the chairman and my colleagues on the committee for moving forward such an excellent package as part of the energy bill .  i think many of us have spent the last several years hoping that we would get an energy bill passed .  there are a number of reasons why ; in my district , clearly one of the most important is simply the cost of energy , whether it is home heat , whether it is the cost to manufacturers which is costing us jobs .  we need to move forward with this energy bill .  my district is home to a number of manufacturers .  i have met with many of them since the beginning of the year when we were hoping that we would get the energy bill moving .  what they have asked for us is to help them with their higher overhead , ultimately helping them with their competitiveness , helping jobs to remain in our district .  obviously , these companies ' employees are much more susceptible to layoffs without the energy bill .  i am also hearing from home owners , many of the elderly in my district with older homes , who need some help , some incentives to improve their homes , some tax assistance so they will have more energy-efficient homes , to those who are building new homes , more incentives .  the bill also addresses our aging electric transmission system .  many of our transmission system lines were built 30 to 50 years ago , and it is estimated by 2015 electricity consumption will increase by 28 percent .  we need to repair and rebuild the 160 , 000 miles of electrical transmission lines .  this bill will reduce the time for depreciation recovery and improve the opportunity for those companies to update those lines , helping in efficiency , helping in opportunity to have cheaper energy .  it is important also that we encourage new kinds of fuel .  especially important are fuel cells and , in fact , providing new jobs and better technology .  fuel cell technology in the united states is growing .  the use of it is growing and , in fact , jobs in that field are growing .  i think it is important that this bill provide a 15 percent tax credit for business installation of fuel cell power plants and residential fuel cell investments .  this is a great technology .  it is one that has been utilized in other parts of the world to a further extent than it has been utilized in the united states .  the help in this bill will encourage further use of fuel cells .  this bill makes changes of the tax code that will speed the development of newer and cleaner production of energy .  it will help curb energy costs .  it will help move our economy forward .  i urge my colleagues to support this bill , and i especially commend my colleagues on the committee on ways and means for the tax provisions .  mr. chairman , american consumers are being hit hard at the gas pump right now .  the legislation we have on the floor today will go a long way towards giving our nation the sound , comprehensive energy policy that our citizens need and deserve .  our nation is too dependent on a fickle foreign oil market that is being stretched to the limit by global demands .  the evidence can be seen at gas stations across the united states .  recently , the national average price of gasoline hit an all-time high of $ 2.28 a gallon .  oil prices , at one point , jumped to almost $ 58 a barrel .  analyst forecast a higher spike to $ 60 soon .  in some parts of the country , like the west coast , gas has jumped to more than $ 2.50 for a gallon of unleaded .  the house has passed energy legislation three times .  each time it has been blocked for partisan gamesmanship .  meanwhile , families are finding it more expensive to plan a family vacation or even drive their kids to little league practice .  many of our small business owners , like florists , truck drivers and pizza delivery companies , are struggling to make ends meet .  this is unacceptable .  america is in the midst of an energy crisis that threatens our national and economic security .  the house legislation does a number of things to address the crisis .  it reduces our dependence on foreign oil by expanding domestic supplies and allowing oil and gas exploration right here in the united states .  incentives are provided for the energy industry to increase refining capacity for gasoline , diesel fuel , home heating oil and jet fuel .  and , this legislation makes a significant venture into the use of renewable fuels like ethanol and biodiesel -- environmentally safe alternatives that can be found in the corn , soybean and sugarcane fields right here in the united states .  under this legislation , our citizens would have access to more fuel efficient cars .  it launches a state-of-the-art program to have emission-free hydrogen fuel cell vehicles on the road by the year 2020 .  and , it provides grants to state and local governments to acquire alternative fueled vehicles , hybrids and ultra-low sulfur vehicles .  there 's also a positive economic aspect to the bill .  it would create nearly half a million jobs in the manufacturing , construction , agriculture and technology sectors .  house republicans have produced a bill that is environmentally friendly yet comprehensive , sound and balanced .  more importantly , it eases america 's dependence on an unpredictable foreign market .  this legislation provides a clear path towards the more efficient , reliable and affordable energy policy that our citizens deserve .  i urge the obstructionists to put partisan politics aside for the good of the american people and support this legislation .  madam chairman , earlier this year i reintroduced the residential solar energy tax credit act , which would provide a 15 percent tax credit for the purchase of solar water heating systems and photovoltaic systems to be installed in residential settings .  the maximum amount of this credit is $ 2 , 000 and the credit can not apply to solar energy systems used to heat swimming pools .  i am pleased this provision has been included in the tax title to h.r. 6 , the energy policy act of 2005 .  the solar energy industry in our nation has been growing at a clip of 25 percent per year for the past several years , yet u.s. manufacturers export 75 percent of their products because of the higher up-front costs of solar energy systems as compared to other energy sources .  purchasing a solar energy system is like buying a car and prepaying for all the gas it would ever need .  this makes consumers understandably hesitant despite the environmental and other gains associated with solar energy .  national polls consistently find that over 85 percent of americans want greater support for solar power , and solar power can play a role in our energy mix from coast to coast .  it is my belief that the residential solar tax credit will help advance this important form of renewable energy .  and in stark contrast to the protestations of my friends on the left , we are willing to embrace these technologies .  it is proven by this solar energy tax credit .  i thank the chairman for its inclusion .  i urge support of the legislation .  mr. chairman , i yield myself such time as i may consume .  mr. chairman , it is my pleasure to submit to the house for its consideration h.r. 2419 , the energy and water development appropriations bill for fiscal year 2006 .  the committee on appropriations approved this bill unanimously on may 18 , and i believe it is a good bill that merits the support of the entire house .  mr. chairman , this bill provides annual funding for a wide range of federal programs including such diverse matters as flood control , navigation improvements , environmental restoration , nuclear waste disposal , advanced scientific research , applied energy research , maintenance of our nuclear stockpile , and nuclear non-proliferation .  total funding for energy and water development in fiscal year 2006 is $ 29 , 746 , 000 , 000 .  this funding amount represent a decrease of $ 728 , 000 below the budget request and $ 86.3 million below the current fiscal year .  this bill is right at our subcommittee 's 302 ( b ) allocation and provides adequate funds to meet the priority needs of the house .  title i of the bill provides for the civil works program of the army corps of engineers ; the formally utilized sites remedial action program , which is executed by the corps ; and the office of the assistant secretary of the army for civil works .  the committee recommends a total of $ 4.746 billion for title i activities , $ 294 million below the current year and $ 414 million above the current budget request .  i want to explain a couple of things about the corps as we go through this and take a little time on this because some of this is a change .  for a number of years , the corps civil works program has been oversubscribed where congress kept giving the corps more and more projects to do but not enough money to do them .  we took steps last year to put the corps on the road to fiscal recovery by eliminating the number of new starts and concentrating resources on the completion of ongoing construction projects .  we also asked omb to adopt a new approach to future corps budget requests so that we can use our limited resources to complete the most valuable projects efficiently , instead of spreading those resources very widely to make incremental progress across a large number of projects .  the fiscal year 2006 budget request adopts such a performance-based approach for the corps budget .  proposing to use the ratio of remaining costs to remaining benefits is the primary determinant of which construction projects should receive priority consideration for funding .  while this ratio may not be a perfect measure of merit of all the projects , the budget request represents good faith from the omb to concentrate the corps ' limited resources on finishing the most worthwhile projects that are already under construction .  until we begin to clear out the enormous backlog of ongoing work , we are reluctant to start new projects ; therefore , we did not include any new starts again this year in this bill .  one consequence of adopting this new performance-based approach to the corps is that the funds available for member adds for corps projects are very limited this year .  in part , this is because for the first time in years we received a budget request in which many congressional priorities are already at the funded level .  i think this is an improvement .  however , even with that request as a good starting point , the total amount that we can provide for the corps is less than what the house passed in fiscal year 2005 .  with a healthy base request and a lean 302 ( b ) allocation , we did not add as much for member projects as we have in previous years .  we were harsh , but fair , in how we dealt with these member projects .  our fiscal year 2006 energy and water bill makes major strides to improving the corps ' project execution reprogrammings and continuing contracts .  for a workload of approximately 2 , 000 projects , the chief of engineers recently told me that the corps had 2 , 000 projects , but they had 20 , 000 reprogrammings .  we think this is not good management , and we have done a lot in our bill to try to focus the corps on these continuing contracts .  the problem is that the corps has done a lot of reprogrammings .  they have moved funds around .  we believe this is a case management problem .  we have taken extensive efforts to try to reform this program because we think that they may not have the money to restore what they should , and if there is a big plume in all of this , that they can not really tell us what it is all about .  another area that we have a problem with is in the continuing-contract area .  some people would like to get rid of continuing contracts .  i do not happen to believe that .  i think it is a tool that they need , but we need to make sure that they are not using them to excess and they are not using them to do things that either the administration did not want to fund , we did not want to fund , or the senate did not want to fund ; and that this money is not being shifted around or execution is being done that would inhibit our ability in future years to fund programs by the original funding by the corps .  the department of energy received a total of $ 24.318 billion in the energy and water bill .  that is an increase of $ 105 million over the budget request , about $ 101 million less than the fiscal year 2005 level .  as with the corps , we asked the department of energy to begin preparing 5-year budget plans , first for individual programs and then an integrated plan for the department .  i think this is just good money management within these departments .  we need 5-year plans .  we actually need longer visions in these programs so that we know what we are going to end up with in the waterways in the future and we know what the department of energy 's plans are in the future .  the committee has several important new initiatives for the department of energy .  doe presently has significant quantities of weapons-usable special nuclear materials , plutonium and highly enriched uranium , scattered around its complexes .  unfortunately , even with the heightened attention to homeland security after the 9/11 attacks , the department has done little to consolidate these high-risk materials .  we have provided additional funds for material consolidation initiative and direct doe to take aggressive action to consolidate its weapons-usable uranium and plutonium into fewer , more secure sites .  we think this is not only a security problem , but it costs us a lot of money and we think we can do better .  we also propose a spent fuel recycling initiative to stimulate some fresh thinking on how this country deals with its spent nuclear fuel .  i want to state that i fully support the yucca mountain repository , and our bill fully funds the request for yucca mountain in fiscal year 2006 .  it is critical that we get yucca mountain done and done right and done soon .  however , we continue to be frustrated by the delays in getting the repository open , and we are concerned about what will happen after that first repository is built .  the department of energy estimates that each year of delay on yucca mountain costs the government an additional billion dollars , half from the legal liability for doe 's failure to begin accepting commercial spent fuel beginning in 1988 , as required by the law , and the other half from the costs .  in addition , the authorized capacity of yucca mountain will be fully utilized by the year 2010 with no place to dispose of spent fuel generated after that date .  it is time to rethink our approach on spent fuel .  we need to start moving spent fuel away from reactor sites to one or more centralized , above-ground interim storage facilities located at doe sites .  if we want to build a new generation of nuclear power reactors in this country , we have got to demonstrate to investors and the public that the federal government will live up to its responsibilities under the nuclear waste policy act and to take title to commercial spent fuel .  i would note that we are already storing foreign reactor fuel on doe sites .  it is time we do the same for our domestic spent fuel .  this may help to limit the billions of dollars of legal liability facing the federal government for its failure to accept commercial spent fuel for disposal .  it is also time to think about our reluctance to reprocess spent fuel .  the europeans are doing this very successfully , and there are some advanced reprocessing technologies in the research and development phase that promise to reduce or eliminate some of the disadvantages of the current chemical process .  we add funds to the nuclear waste disposal account and direct the secretary to begin accepting commercial spent fuel in fiscal year 2006 for interim storage at one or more doe sites .  we also include additional funds and direction within the nuclear energy account for the secretary to select an advanced reprocessing technology in fiscal year 2007 and to establish a competitive process to select one or more sites for an advanced fuel recycling facility .  lastly , the committee recommends a new sustainable stockpile initiative to ensure the future of our nation 's nuclear deterrent .  the committee provides additional funds for the reliable replacement warhead that we initiated in last year 's conference report .  we placed the reliable replacement warhead in the context of a larger sustainable stockpile initiative , which we view as a package deal with several key components .  first , the reliable replacement warhead is a program to reengineer existing warheads to be safer , more secure , cheaper to maintain , easier to dismantle and , more importantly , easier to certify without underground testing .  secondly , we propose a modest slowdown of life extension work on the old warheads in preparation for a shift to the newer replacement warheads .  this is coupled with a significant increase in dismantlement rates to bring down the stockpile to match the president 's decision about the size of the stockpile by the year 2012 .  frankly , in the long run , i am hopeful the secretary 's task force on the nuclear weapons complex will propose some sensible steps to modernize the doe weapons complex and bring it into line with these coming changes in the size and composition of the stockpile .  the committee provided for an aggressive nuclear nonproliferation program within the national nuclear security administration .  we provided an additional $ 65 million to keep the plutonium producing reactor shutdown program with the russians on track to have all three reactors closed by 2011 .  the committee also provided $ 85 million additional for the russian material protection program to secure nuclear materials overseas .  we made a significant reduction to the domestic mox plant because of the large unexpended prior-year balances in that project , caused by the continued liability dispute with the russians .  given the constrained budget environment , the committee can not continue to appropriate hundreds of millions of dollars for a construction project that has been delayed for 3 years .  i believe this is a responsible bill that makes sound investment decisions for the future of our agencies .  members will not receive as many water and energy projects as they may have liked , but we did take care of their top priorities .  hopefully , we did that everywhere .  i want to thank all the members of the subcommittee on energy and water development , and related agencies for helping to bring this bill to the floor today .  i especially want to thank my ranking member , the gentleman from indiana ( mr. visclosky )  , for his extraordinary cooperation this past year .  in my opinion , this is truly a bipartisan bill that represents a hard-fought but ultimately fair and balanced compromise .  this is the way i believe our constituents expect their representatives to work together .  i also want to thank the chairman of the committee on appropriations , the gentleman from california ( mr. lewis )  and the ranking minority member , the gentleman from wisconsin ( mr. obey )  , for their support and for allowing us to move this bill forward in such an expeditious manner .  lastly , i want to thank the staff of the committee : kevin cook , our clerk ; john blazey , scott burnison , terry tyborowski , and tracy laturner for their work on this bill .  i also want to thank dixon butler of the minority staff and kenny kraft , from my office , and peder moorbjerg from the visclosky office .  i want to especially acknowledge our agency 's detailees , taunja berquam and felicia kirksey , for their invaluable assistance in putting this bill and report together .  it is a shared bill .  we all work together and talk to each other , and i want to thank everybody for working together to get this bill this far .  mr. chairman , it is my privilege to submit to the house for its consideration h.r. 2419 , the energy and water development appropriations bill for fiscal year 2006 .  the appropriations committee approved this bill unanimously on may 18 , and i believe this is a good bill that merits the support of the entire house .  mr. chairman , this bill provides annual funding for a wide range of federal programs , including such diverse matters as flood control , navigation improvements , environmental restoration , nuclear waste disposal , advanced scientific research , applied energy research , maintenance of our nuclear stockpile , and nuclear nonproliferation .  total funding for energy and water development in fiscal year 2006 is $ 29.746 billion .  this funding amount represents a decrease of $ 728 , 000 below the budget request and $ 86.3 million below the current fiscal year .  this bill is right at our subcommittee 's 302 ( b ) allocation , and provides adequate funds to meet the priority needs of the house .  title i of the bill provides funding for the civil works program of the army corps of engineers , the formerly utilized sites remedial action program , which is executed by the corps , and the office of the assistant secretary of the army for civil works .  the committee recommends a total of $ 4.746 billion for title i activities , $ 294 million below the current year and $ 414 million above the budget request .  for a number of years , the corps civil works program has been oversubscribed , where congress kept giving the corps more and more projects to do , but not enough money to do them all .  we took steps last year to put the corps on the road to fiscal recovery , by limiting the number of new starts and concentrating resources on the completion of ongoing construction projects .  we also asked the office of management and budget to adopt a new approach to future corps budget requests , so that we can use our limited resources to complete the most valuable projects efficiently , instead of spreading those resources very widely to make incremental progress across a large number of projects .  the fiscal year 2006 budget request adopts such a performance-based approach for the corps budget , proposing to use the ratio of remaining costs-to-remaining benefits as the primary determinant of which construction projects should receive priority consideration for funding .  while this ratio may not be the perfect measure of merit for all projects , the budget request represents a good-faith effort from the office of management and budget to concentrate the corps ' limited resources on finishing the most worthwhile projects that are already under construction .  until we begin to clear out the enormous backlog of ongoing work , we are very reluctant to add new projects to the pipeline .  therefore , we did not include any new starts or new project authorizations for the corps in this house bill .  one consequence of adopting this new performance-based approach to the corps budget is that the funds available for member adds for corps projects are very limited .  in part , this is because , for the first time in years , we received a budget request in which many congressional priorities are already funded at a reasonable level .  however , even with that request as a good starting point , the total amount that we can provide for the corps is less than what the house passed in fiscal year 2005 .  with a healthy base request and a lean 302 ( b ) allocation , we did not add as much for member projects as we have in previous years .  we were harsh but fair in how we dealt with these member requests .  our fiscal year 2006 energy and water bill makes major strides toward improving the corps ' project execution , reprogrammings , and continuing contracts .  let me talk for a moment about these interrelated issues .  for a workload of approximately 2 , 000 projects , the chief of engineers recently told me that the corps does about 20 , 000 reprogrammings each year .  we have gao reviewing the corps reprogrammings , and they tell us that the corps has reprogrammed funds for amounts as small as 6 cents .  this is not sound financial management , and suggests that the corps is more focused on moving money around frequently to meet the corps ' determination of project needs , irrespective of the allocations provided in annual appropriations .  instead , the corps should be managing its workload within the project allocations provided by congress .  much of this problem is driven by the corps ' misplaced emphasis on expending 99 percent continuing contracts are a related problem .  under this mechanism , the corps can obligate the federal government for funding future fiscal years .  in some cases , the corps is awarding continuing contracts for projects that received no appropriation in fiscal year 2005 , or have not been included at all in the budget request for fiscal year 2006 .  also , the corps uses accelerated earnings on continuing contracts to pay its contractors more than is appropriated for a project in the current fiscal year .  in part , these accelerated earnings on continuing contracts are one of the drivers for the corps extensive reprogrammings , and also one of the mechanisms the corps uses in its pursuit of the 99 percent expenditure goal .  this practice has to stop , and we include language limiting the corps ' ability to obligate the government in excess of appropriations .  the department of energy receives a total of $ 24.318 billion in the energy and water development bill , an increase of $ 105 million over the budget request but $ 101 million less than the fiscal year 2005 level .  as with the corps , we task the department of energy to begin preparing 5-year budget plans , first for individual programs and then an integrated plan for the entire department .  this plan must include business plans for each of the doe laboratories , so we understand the mission and resource needs of each laboratory .  the committee includes several important new initiatives for the department of energy .  doe presently has significant quantities of weapons-usable special nuclear materials , plutonium and highly enriched uranium , scattered around the complex .  unfortunately , even with the heightened attention to homeland security after the 9-11 attacks , the department has done little to consolidate these high-risk materials .  we provide additional funds for a material consolidation initiative and direct doe to take aggressive action to consolidate its weapons-usable uranium and plutonium into fewer , more secure sites .  we also propose a spent fuel recycling initiative to stimulate some fresh thinking on how this country deals with its spent nuclear fuel .  i continue to support the yucca mountain repository , and our bill fully funds the request for yucca mountain in fiscal year 2006 .  it is critical that we get yucca done right , and done soon .  however , we continue to be frustrated by the delays in getting that repository open , and we are concerned about what happens after that first repository is built .  the department of energy estimates that each year of delay on yucca mountain costs the government an additional $ 1 billion , half from the legal liability for doe 's failure to begin accepting commercial spent fuel beginning in 1998 , as is required by law , and the other half from the costs .  in addition , the authorized capacity of yucca mountain will be fully utilized by the year 2010 , with no place to dispose of spent fuel generated after that date .  it is time to rethink our approach to dealing with spent fuel .  we need to start moving spent fuel away from reactor sites to one or more centralized , above-ground interim storage facilities located at doe sites .  if we want to build a new generation of nuclear reactors in this country , we need to demonstrate to investors and the public that the federal government will live up to its responsibilities under the nuclear waste policy act to take title to commercial spent nuclear fuel .  i would note that we are already it is also time that we think again about our reluctance to reprocess spent fuel .  the europeans are doing this successfully , and there are some advanced reprocessing technologies in the research and development phase that promise to reduce or eliminate some of the disadvantages of the current chemical processes .  we add funds to the nuclear waste disposal account and direct the secretary to begin accepting commercial spent fuel in fiscal year 2006 for interim storage at one or more doe sites .  we also include additional funds and direction within the nuclear energy account for the secretary to select an advanced reprocessing technology in fiscal year 2007 and to establish a competitive process to select one or more sites for an advanced fuel recycling facility .  lastly , the committee recommends a new sustainable stockpile initiative to ensure the future of our nation 's nuclear deterrent .  the committee provides additional funds for the reliable replacement warhead , which we initiated in last year 's conference report .  we place the reliable replacement warhead in the context of the larger sustainable stockpile initiative , which we view as a package deal with several key elements .  first , the reliable replacement warhead is a program to re-engineer existing warheads to be safer , more secure , cheaper to maintain , easier to dismantle , and most importantly , easier to certify without underground nuclear testing .  second , we propose a modest slow-down of life extension work on the old warheads in preparation for a shift to the newer replacement warheads .  this is coupled with a significant increase in dismantlement rates to the committee provided for an aggressive nuclear nonproliferation program within the national nuclear security administration .  we provided an additional $ 65 million to keep the plutonium producing reactor shutdown program with the russians on track to have all three reactors closed by 2011 .  the committee also provided $ 85 million additional for the russian material protection program to secure nuclear material overseas .  we made a significant reduction to the domestic mox plant because of the large unexpended prior year balances in that project caused by the continued liability dispute with the russians .  given the constrained budget environment , the committee can not continue to appropriate hundreds of millions of dollars for a construction project that been delayed for 3 years .  i believe this is a responsible bill that makes sound investment decisions for the future of our agencies .  members will not receive as many water or energy projects as they might like , but we did take care of their top priorities .  i want to thank all the members of the energy and water development subcommittee for their help in bringing this bill to the floor today .  i especially want to thank my ranking member , mr. visclosky of indiana , for his extraordinary cooperation this past year .  this is truly a bipartisan bill that represents a hard-fought but ultimately fair and balanced compromise .  this is why i believe our constituents expect their representatives to work together .  i also want to thank the chairman of the appropriations committee , mr. lewis , and the ranking minority member , mr. obey , for their support and for allowing us to move this bill forward in an expeditious manner .  lastly , i would like to thank the staff of the subcommittee -- kevin cook , john blazey , scott burnison , terry tyborowki , and tracey laturner -- for their hard work on this bill .  i also want to thank dixon butler of the minority staff , and both kenny kraft from my office and peder maarbjerg of mr. visclosky 's office .  i especially want to acknowledge our agency detailees , taunja berquam and felicia kirksey , for their invaluable assistance in putting this bill and report together .  mr. chairman , i reserve the balance of my time .  mr. chairman , i yield myself such time as i may consume .  first of all , i thank the gentleman from wisconsin ( mr. obey )  for his kind comments .  the gentleman from wisconsin ( mr. obey )  is the scholar of the house .  he reads these things and understands them , and i very much appreciate his remarks on the bill on behalf of both myself and the ranking member .  mr. chairman , i share the gentleman 's support of this important program , and i share his goal in this field .  i am disappointed that the department 's fiscal year 2006 budget request did not preserve the increases that this subcommittee provided for this purpose during the past 2 fiscal years .  because of the department 's disregard for congressional intent , the committee provides $ 30 million of the increase for the center of competition science at oak ridge national laboratory which was selected competitively to build this leadership-class supercomputer .  the committee expects the department to make full use of this laboratory industry capability .  finally , i agree with the gentleman of the importance of this effort and encourage the department of energy to make the necessary budget requests in the future to continue this very important effort .  the gentleman 's understanding is correct .  i do not see any reason for the secretary to consider making a private site , or a site on tribal land , into a doe site for interim storage .  my intent is for the secretary to evaluate storage options at existing doe sites .  mr. chairman , as the gentleman from florida is aware , the budget is very tight this year ; and due to the lack of federal funds , many projects the committee supported in the past did not receive appropriations this year .  because money is tight , locals will need to do more with less and finish this with other local money .  as the gentleman knows , i have got three grandchildren living in florida ; so i am interested in the state of florida , and i appreciate the gentleman 's bringing this to our attention .  mr. chairman , i yield myself such time as i may consume .  let me close and say i want to thank my ranking member because we have worked together on this bill .  it is a very comprehensive and detailed bill in a lot of scientific ways .  we do take some visions for the future of this country which i think are very important when it comes to the waterways and we get the increased plume , which results from not finishing these projects , completed .  i think also as important , if not more so , is the vision for the corps and the waterways in the future .  also the vision for the department of energy both in the weapons area and in the area of future cost-effective power for this country so that this country can compete in the world in the future are both dealt with in various stages in this bill .  so i hope that everyone will support this bill .  mr. chairman , i yield back the balance of my time , and i move that the committee do now rise .  the motion was agreed to .  accordingly , the committee rose ; and the speaker pro tempore ( mr. simpson )  having assumed the chair , mr. goodlatte , chairman of the committee of the whole house on the state of the union , reported that that committee , having had under consideration the bill ( h.r. 2419 ) making appropriations for energy and water development for the fiscal year ending september 30 , 2006 , and for other purposes , had come to no resolution thereon .  mr. chairman , i demand a recorded vote .  madam speaker , i thank the gentlewoman for organizing this special order , and i ask the gentleman from idaho if he would pause a moment to engage in a brief colloquy with the gentleman from idaho ( mr. otter )  because the gentleman holds some expertise , and that is the need to continue to build refineries in this country , crude oil refineries .  could you speak for a moment about what we expect will happen with refinery construction in this country if we pass the energy bill as it is presented .  i thank the gentleman from idaho ( mr. otter )  for his comments .  i will get to some more of that subject matter of education as i go through this .  i appreciate your patience with me tonight and indulgence .  i would like to first speak to the broad picture of energy across this country .  there is this entire pie of energy here and different components and slices of this pie .  energy , first of all , is a component in everything that we buy .  if there is any one item that adds to inflation in all the products that we purchase in this country , it is energy because it takes energy to produce anything , it takes energy to deliver anything , and it takes energy to go pick it up and buy it .  so whenever we move , we are burning energy , and that is a part of the cost of everything we are .  if we do not have an effective energy policy , we are paying more for all goods and services in this country than is necessary and that means it makes us less competitive in the rest of the world .  that is the big picture as to why energy is so important .  some of the components of this energy are crude oil .  we know how much energy we bring in across from the middle east and venezuela and other parts of the world that is imported into the united states .  the crude oil cost includes also the military investment over there and the unrest and everyone , as was said earlier , the gentleman from texas stated about every country must have their energy .  whatever it takes , we must have our energy .  but we sit in this country on a significant supply of domestic crude oil .  this bill puts in place the motion to construct the refineries that we need so that we can bring the crude oil in and get it refined .  it also allows for us to go up to anwr and do our drilling up there to bring that crude oil down to the lower 48 .  i also have been up to anwr to take a look at that .  as i asked the people up there around the kaktovik area , they said , yes , we have to go hunt the caribou during a certain time of the year but really the resident caribou in the drilling area are only in there from mid-may until the end of june .  they come in to calve and then they leave about the end of june .  that is the time when the permafrost thaws down to about a foot or 18 inches .  nothing is going to move during that period of time except the caribou and when those young calves get old enough to walk back , they go back over to canada out of the area , so nothing would be going on in that region when the caribou were there .  it is kind of a caribou maternity ward in that part of alaska .  we need that domestic crude oil and any nation that is looking to its long-term best interests will be producing its own energy .  the concern about someday running out of crude oil , why would you keep it in the bank forever when we have other opportunities for different energy supplies that will be developed as science and technology catches up ?  we need to go there , get that crude oil , get it drilled , and bring it down the alaska pipeline .  by the way , the alaska pipeline , if the north slope oil runs out , and it looks like it is heading in that direction , that pipeline has to stay full almost all the time or it starts to erode inside the pipe , it turns to rust and it may not be able to be put back up on line .  so it is important that we keep the alaska pipeline up and going .  that is a huge and valuable resource that began construction there in about 1972 .  it has been there a long time , it has served very , very well , and it can do a lot more .  in that same region is all of the natural gas that is already developed that we do not have a good way to deliver it to the lower 48 , that is the pipeline .  yes , there are some things to work out within the state of alaska .  i hope that gets done .  we have done , i think , what we can do here , at least for now , but we need that natural gas , we need it into the corn belt , we need it for a lot of the reasons that the gentleman from colorado said , and i am glad he is in here talking about corn and ethanol with regard to energy .  in the part of the country where i come from , we have constructed ethanol production to the extent that within the next 2 years , we will be able to say that we have built all of the ethanol production , all the plants that we have the corn to supply in the fifth district in iowa , the western third of iowa .  we have started construction now on biodiesel plants , we have two plants up and running now , we are breaking ground on a third plant that happens to be about 9 miles from where i live as the crow flies on biodiesel .  biodiesel is coming along in the same shoes as ethanol , only a lot faster , because they have learned from the people that blazed the trail in ethanol .  we are going to have , i believe , within the next 5 to 6 years , all of the biodiesel production that we will have , the soybeans and the other bioproducts to supply .  that has made already this district that i represent an energy export center with the ethanol production being up to almost all we can provide and the biodiesel , we have started on it very well .  we have tremendous wind energy that has been put in place there in the last 4 to 5 years .  i will say 6 to 7 years ago , we had almost no energy production , we were an energy consumption region , and today we are an energy export center .  it has changed that much .  it has helped a lot with our energy independence and to become less dependent on foreign energy supplies of all kinds .  but we are faced with this need for nitrogen fertilizer and almost all of our nitrogen fertilizer is made directly from natural gas , directly from natural gas .  ninety percent of the cost of that fertilizer is the cost of purchasing the gas to produce the nitrogen from it .  so we sit in this country without being able to get the pipeline down from alaska where the gas is , it is already developed , and that is a process that if all goes well could maybe get done in 6 years .  it may take 9 or 10 years to get there .  yet that needs to happen and it needs to happen quickly .  but within the lower 48 states , earlier we saw the map of the layout of the natural gas , along the east coast , the west coast and the outer shelf around florida and in the central part of the united states .  one of these esteemed gentlemen has made the statement on this floor , and i am going to repeat it , and i believe it , and that is that we have enough known natural gas reserves underneath non-national park public lands in the united states of america to heat every home in america for the next 150 years .  that is almost a renewable energy resource when you look at that kind of a quantity .  yet natural gas is three times the price as it was just 5 and 6 years ago .  our natural gas that produces our fertilizer has done the same thing to our fertilizer prices .  people in the corn belt pay going into the ground with their fertilizer and then when they take that grain off the field in the fall , they have to dry the grain and most times what do they dry it with ?  natural gas .  so we are more susceptible to high natural gas prices than maybe any place else in the country and we have watched because of that the fertilizer production go offshore to places like venezuela and russia .  i remember what happened with the oil cartel in the late seventies when they shut down the oil delivery to the united states and the prices went up .  we could be in that same situation with venezuela and russia if we let them take on any more of the fertilizer production .  we need it here .  we have got the gas here .  we need to develop the gas .  when we develop the gas , we will be able to keep our fertilizer plants .  but if we do not , we will not be able to keep those plants which means we lose that fertilizer production and makes us dependent on those countries that i named .  that is really critical .  we mentioned the solar energy as a component and that is going on in some of the parts of the country .  hydroelectric has been built and constructed .  one of the other things i am concerned about is we have not built a nuclear plant in this country in a generation .  the engineering technology that it takes to do that is leaving us year by year .  that is another piece that has got to move along .  we have got hydrogen around the corner and hydrogen may be the answer to much of this , but if we put all these pieces together , wind and ethanol and biodiesel and natural gas and crude oil , hydroelectric , the whole list , we have got the picture of the pieces that make us less dependent on foreign oil .  that is the picture , that is the energy bill , and that is why i support it .  mr. chairman , i rise today to urge funding to redraw the flood plain maps that would assist in addressing flood plan management problems along the missouri river .  the states of iowa , nebraska , south dakota , and missouri , as well as all cities and counties bordering the river , have an immediate need for improved flood plain information along the missouri river .  the lack of incomplete data hampers the way that communities plan for their economic future and interact with state and federal agencies .  the existing data is approximately 30 years old .  coupled with that , is the fact that the recently completed upper mississippi river system flow frequency study , which includes the main-lower missouri below gavins point dam , resulted in significant this need for new information is due to the changes in land use and the pressure from development occurring all along the river .  improving the flood plain mapping , which meets the requirements of the nfip ( authorized by p.l .  86-645 ) , can be developed working from the results of the upper mississippi river system flow frequency study .  the new flood plain information will allow development of water surface profiles and digital flood insurance rate maps ( dfirm ) for regulating current and future development of the 100-year and 500-year flood plains as well as the floodway along this 313-mile reach of the river .  mr. chairman , i am concerned this bill will not clear the budget responsibility .  h.r. 6 technically does not violate the budget act because it is an unreported bill , and budget act points of order generally only apply to reported bills .  the bill generally is inconsistent with the 302 ( a ) allocations for both the 2005 and house-passed 2006 budget resolutions .  section 2053 of the bill does , however , create a new entitlement program outside the budget window ( specifically , fy 2016 ) .  it uses a portion of outer-continental receipts to fund new mandatory state-run conservation , education , and infrastructure programs .  estimates indicate that the annual cost of this provision could be in the range of $ 1.75 billion .  if h.r. 6 were a reported bill , such a provision might subject the bill to a section 303 point of order .  we just passed a budget only after clarifying a point of order would defeat any appropriations bill over budget .  it appears that we have to expand this point to protect against bills like this .  i thank the gentleman for yielding me this time .  mr. chairman , i just want to , first of all , express what an honor and privilege it is to work on a subcommittee that works in such a bipartisan way with the great leadership of the chairman and the ranking member .  it is really a pleasure to actually get into policy discussions rather than a lot of the politics that we hear around here .  it is very much appreciated .  also , the tremendous staff that we have on this subcommittee .  i think the gentleman from tennessee ( mr. wamp )  mentioned the great professionalism that they have on both sides of the aisle .  it is a real pleasure .  this bill is a really good bill under an allocation that could always be larger .  we have worked out , i think , everything possible we can with the dollars available .  i am very appreciative of the fact that we have focused on renewable energy , the kind of important work that we do on the river , on the mississippi , and other projects that are involved also .  i want to commend the chairman and the ranking member and urge support of this very , very good bill .  mr. speaker , i appreciate my appropriations colleague yielding me a moment just to say that my colleague , the gentleman from wisconsin ( mr. obey )  , and i have spent a lot of time together discussing these questions and the schedule and otherwise .  the relationship is extremely positive , and i believe he and i this week , before the week is out , will have a chance to sit down and talk about 302 ( b ) s , for example .  we are going to move forward very expeditiously , and i think it will benefit , one more time , my colleague and i , who are appropriations members together , and it will benefit our committee greatly .  mr. speaker , we have come to the conclusion , by looking at some recent history , that we can , within pretty close margins , measure what our likely allocations will be .  the subcommittees are proceeding as though there are numbers , recognizing full well that we will have to respond to the final budget package as they have given it to us and as we have talked between subcommittee chairmen , but we can pretty well guesstimate .  in the past , i believe that we have tended to delay our process because we decided we had to wait until the budget process was already complete , and we let supplementals interfere with that process , et cetera .  so , in the past , we found ourselves sending our product to the other body just as we go past the end of the fiscal year , hardly giving them the time to do the kind of work that they would like to do , thus the omnibus , et cetera .  the cooperation between the two bodies , i must say to my colleague , is better than i could ever have imagined .  it is a fabulous , growing relationship , and i think it will benefit both of the bodies .  mr. chairman , i thank the gentleman for yielding me this time , and i have a little different view of this .  this is a good bill .  it is a bill this country needs .  we need a national energy policy , there is no question about it , and i congratulate the gentleman from texas ( mr. barton )  on years of hard , dedicated work to bring this to the floor .  having said that , like any other bill i have ever seen , it is not a perfect bill ; it has its good and bad parts .  and if i could , mr. chairman , just for the record , i would like to have a little quick colloquy with the gentleman from texas .  mr. chairman , as my colleague from texas knows , the electricity title is very , very important to my consumers and my constituents in the southeast as well as in the northwest , and one of the provisions in the title that is not there is regarding participatory funding .  since that is a fairly standard thought-out thing in regional transmission organizations , i am concerned that the bill does not have any language in there to assure me and my constituents that they are not going to have to pay extra .  we do really want to help people that are having blackouts and brownouts , but we do not think we should pay the whole load .  what can i anticipate on participatory funding down the road ?  mr. chairman , reclaiming my time , i thank the gentleman very much .  as he knows , i agree participatory means `` everybody pays , '' and those that reap the advantages of this , which will be the generators of electricity and the receivers of electricity , need to pay .  and i am all right with that .  i thank my colleague , and i look forward to working with him on this as we move forward toward conference .  i thank the chairman .  mr. chairman , the measure before us today -- the appropriations act for energy and water development -- joins the early wave of discretionary spending bills pursuant to the recently adopted budget resolution for fiscal year 2006 ( h. con .  res. 95 ) .  as the name suggests , this bill provides for the nation 's energy and water development needs , with funding for all of the department of energy , and select activities of the departments of defense and the interior , including the corps of engineers and the bureau of reclamation .  while the government 's overall energy strategy is now being discussed in a conference on h.r. 6 , the bill before us today provides a vital additional component of the nation 's energy policies .  as chairman of the budget committee , i am pleased to note that this bill complies with the budget resolution , and also reflects a responsible set of budgetary choices .  although the appropriations committee provided more funding that the president in certain areas , they still achieved a modest but real reduction in total spending for this bill , compared with fiscal year 2005 .  h.r. 2419 provides $ 29.7 billion in appropriations for fiscal year 2006 .  this is $ 410 million , or 1.3 percent , below the fiscal year 2005 level , and equal to the president 's request .  the bill complies with section 302 ( f ) of the budget act , which prohibits consideration of bills in excess of an appropriations subcommittee 's 302 ( b ) allocation of budget authority in the budget resolution .  the bill provides $ 23.8 billion in discretionary ba to the department of energy [ doe ] , a reduction of $ 390 million from the 2005 enacted level .  within the department , ba is reduced from the 2005 level by 2.6 percent for environmental and other defense activities ( $ 203 million ) , and 4 percent for the national nuclear security administration ( $ 365 million ) .  but for energy programs , the bill provides a slight increase of 1.3 percent , or $ 98 million .  h.r. 2419 provides $ 661 million for the yucca mountain repository , an increase of $ 84 million above 2005 and $ 10 million over the president 's request .  funding for the department of the interior totals $ 933 million and discretionary spending for the bureau of reclamation holds flat relative to 2005 .  for the corps of engineers , the committee provided $ 4.7 billion , or $ 396 million over the president 's request , primarily through additional construction and operations and maintenance spending , which together make up two-thirds of total corps of engineers spending .  also , the appropriations committee rejected an initiative to directly fund the operations and maintenance costs through the power marketing associations ' revenues .  h.r. 2419 does not contain any emergency-designated ba , which is exempt from budgetary limits .  while the budget resolution for fiscal year 2006 , h. con .  res. 95 , did allow for an advance appropriation in the elk hills account , the committee on appropriations provided for it with a current year appropriation .  the bill also defers $ 257 million in previously appropriated funds for the clean coal technology initiative until fiscal year 2007 , providing $ 257 million in ba savings for 2006 , and an equal increase in 2007 .  the administration proposed a rescission of this amount .  additionally , the bill allows the nuclear regulatory commission [ nrc ] to recover 90 percent of its budget authority through licensing and annual fees , less the appropriation derived from the nuclear waste fund .  this will recover a projected $ 581 million in fiscal year 2006 with remaining 10 percent , or $ 65 million , funded from the general fund of the treasury .  in conclusion , i would like to commend chairman lewis and the appropriations committee on their steady work in bringing bills to the floor that comply with h. con .  res. 95 and wish them continued success as they proceed through this appropriations season .  i therefore express my support for h.r. 2419 .  mr. speaker , i thank the gentleman for yielding me time .  i rise to support the rule and the underlying bill .  as everyone knows , high energy costs are the greatest drag that we currently have on our economy and actually on world economy ; and every year we delay passing this legislation , we become more dependent on foreign oil .  i would like to mention very quickly a small part of the energy bill which has to do with ethanol and biodiesel .  the bill mandates 5 billion gallons of ethanol production by 2012 .  interestingly enough , here this year , in 2005 , we will produce 4.5 billion , so we are almost there .  next year , 2006 , we will produce well over 5 billion which will be 7 years before the end date of 2012 .  so we have great capacity to do even better .  ethanol today is produced in 20 different states , and i predict that within a few years , using biomass , all 50 states in the union will produce some form of ethanol .  today the average price of a gallon of gasoline is reduced by 29 cents by the ethanol production that we now have .  the average price around the country is about $ 2.20 .  without ethanol today , it would be roughly $ 2.50 .  ethanol increases the price of corn by between 25 and 50 cents a bushel .  what is so big about that ?  the important thing is , it reduces the cost of the farm bill because as prices of corn go up , we have fewer farm payments .  so over the next 10 years ethanol production will reduce the cost of the farm bill by roughly $ 6 billion .  it reduces the trade deficit by $ 64 billion over the next 8 years .  it creates 243 , 000 jobs and adds $ 200 billion to gdp over the next 8 years .  so it reduces our dependence on foreign oil .  we think this is critical and has great potential .  at the present time , brazil mandates 23 percent of their fuel supply be from ethanol .  we certainly could hit 7 or 8 percent in this country .  mr. speaker , i support the rule .  madam speaker , i thank the gentlewoman for her leadership and also for offering some time and providing us the opportunity tonight to speak to the energy bill .  i also compliment the gentleman from colorado ( mr. beauprez )  and the gentleman from texas ( mr. hall )  and the gentleman from nebraska ( mr. terry )  for the insights that they have given us tonight into the whole concept of the energy bill .  we are not talking about a few of the hot points that the news media like to talk an awful lot about .  i can not go through the process that we did last week in formulating this energy bill without thinking of a childhood poem , and it goes like this : `` i saw a group of men in my hometown , i saw a group of men tearing a building down .  with a heave and a ho and a mighty yell , they swung a beam and a sidewalk fell .  `` so i said to the foreman , `hey , are these men skilled , you know , the kind i 'd hire if i wanted to build ?  ' and he laughed and said , `why , no , indeed , common labor is all i need .  for with common labor i can tear down in a day or two what it took a builder 10 years to do. ' and so i thought to myself as i walked away , which of those roles am i going to play ?  `` the 109th congress , madam speaker , is deciding now what role we are going to play .  are we going to build an energy future ?  are we going to build an economic future for this great nation of ours and for future generations ?  are we going to put in place today a public policy that will serve this nation in our competitive efforts with the rest of the world ?  i can tell you there is no other place in the world that this argument is going on , of whether or not we are going to energize our natural resources , energize our native creative genius in order to provide the cheapest and the most abundant and most reliable energy source that we possibly can .  yet this is a heartfelt debate .  fortunately for us , with the leadership of our chairman , the gentleman from texas ( mr. barton )  , we were able to come out of the committee with a great energy bill and in a bipartisan fashion .  in fact , i myself have voted on this energy bill .  although i have only been in this congress for 4 years and 4 months , i have voted on the energy bill four times , with the great hope that was going to be one thing as a member from idaho 's first congressional district i could leave as a legacy .  yet 4 years and 4 months later , we are still wanting and still faced with those who will tear down rather than build up .  i would like to talk about something that has not gotten , i believe , the attention that it needs .  as the gentlewoman from tennessee ( mrs. blackburn )  mentioned early on , we have not built a refinery in this nation in nearly 30 years .  garyville , louisiana , was the last refinery we built in this nation , and yet every day we continue to consume more and more refined gas .  so our capacity to consume is increasing , yet our capacity in relationship to produce and to refine is dwindling .  thus , we are counting more and more and more for yet another strategic part of our value-added energy on some foreign country .  madam speaker , last fall i went down to venezuela and visited hugo chavez .  one of the reasons i did that was because there are several idaho concerns down there probably mining more coal than any place else in the word , and mining more silver and gold than any place else in the world .  there is an exploration company that is environmentally responsible in their exploration and in their research and development for venezuela 's natural resources .  one of the other reasons i went down there was to see where we are importing a million , 800 , 000 barrels of refined fuel a day .  we import 14 million barrels a day .  we use 21 million barrels a day .  so for two-thirds of our consumption , we are now relying on some other country that may be friend or foe , and mr. chavez has already suggested he is not going to be really friendly towards us .  yet we are still relying for two-thirds of the strategic element for our economy on some other nation .  we are relying on their labor , their tax base .  we are relying on building up their economy in order to support our own rather than doing that ourselves .  part of this bill we are looking at today is environmentally streamlined permitting .  we heard many , many times in the committee , as the gentlewoman from tennessee ( mrs. blackburn )  will be able to attest to , we heard many times from the opposition , those who would not build but rather tear down , that there is not one permit that is waiting to go through the bureaucratic process , not one permit in the united states .  i would suggest there ought to be a reason and that we need to take a look at that .  one of the reasons nobody gets a permit is they have been denied for so long .  they are so expensive and have been denied for so long .  one thing i found out in caracas , venezuela , every u.s. oil company that owns a refinery in the united states is down there today asking for a permit to build one in venezuela .  there are permits being given throughout the world and permits being requested .  unfortunately , they are being requested where they find a friendly permitting process , or a permitting process .  and i asked the fellows at lunch that day , are you telling me it is easier to get a permit down here ?  they said , no , environmentally speaking , we have to obey the same laws .  safety-wise we have to obey the same laws .  they are no different than the united states except it happens .  it happens .  in the united states you can sit around for months and years , and then decades before you finally get a permit .  and that is just too lengthy and too costly a process .  they said , we come down here and we can get a permit in 6 to 8 months .  we have to bond it and do everything we do in the united states .  the thing is , these people are working with us .  that is why we are here permitting .  the other thing that this bill looks to is something that a lot of people in the united states do not realize .  if a refinery today , one in garyville , louisiana , should happen to come across some new technology and that new technology would say they could increase their efficiency or their production capacity or their yield , and it happens to be more than 10 percent , they do not want to do it .  the reason they do not want to do it is our environmental laws authorized by the environmental protection agency would say that new 10 percent is new source .  what new source means is you have to go back and permit the whole plant , not just the 10 percent increased , but you have to go back and permit 100 percent of the plant 's production .  so they may have increased since 30 years ago when the last one was permitted , they may have increased 6 or 7 percent , but they do not want to go beyond that or it will be very expensive to go on .  for our economy and for the jobs that are increased and energized and permitted , refinery capacity would do that for this country of ours .  for all of the good that could happen , i would say it is time for us , and we will be deciding tomorrow who they are that want to build and who they are that want to tear down .  i am proud to say that all the folks that you have listened to tonight are the ones that want to build .  i am amongst them , and i am sure the majority will be tomorrow .  madam speaker , i appreciate the opportunity to review some of the facts and figures that we have in the committee .  i appreciate the gentleman 's question , that is , the amount of jobs of course that would be created .  i am saying high-paying professional jobs , not only for the construction phase of building a new refinery which is millions and millions of dollars , but certainly for the operation phase .  as we operate these refineries , we have more and more technology and we call upon these professionals for a higher degree of professionalism .  as a result of that , we are not talking about some of these jobs that can simply be replaced at a moment 's notice .  so one of the things that we have to do , along with the construction of the refinery , along with the potential operation of the refinery , is we have to prepare educating the chemical engineers in our colleges , and there have not been really jobs , at least in the united states that have been forthcoming because of the lack of appreciation , if you will , for the refinery business in the united states and for the gas and oil business in the united states .  a lot of these high-paying jobs have gone overseas , as well as the education opportunities .  we are going to have to incentivize our education system to gear up not only for the construction of the plants but for the potential operations of them .  when you look down the road at it , it has got tremendous possibilities of what it can do for our economy .  madam chairman , i rise today in support of the energy bill that we are discussing on the floor .  madam chairman , the absolute truth is that americans are paying more at the pump today than ever before .  home heating costs have escalated dramatically .  these things are both reflections of the lack of an energy policy .  all we are suggesting in this energy bill is that we need to recognize the dynamic forces that are at play in today 's economy , and that we need to take steps to correct it .  for instance , natural gas in this nation is hovering in the $ 7 range , but if we look over in the asian areas and in russia , it is 95 cents and 70 cents .  what is happening is that we are outsourcing jobs to those other nations because they are paying one-tenth the price for natural gas that we are paying here , and yet our friends on the other side of the aisle some days want to talk about outsourcing jobs and the horrific effect that it has on the economy ; and today we are doing something factual about it , and yet they want to turn an eye and say , that is okay , send those jobs ; we probably did not need them to start with .  they would have us believe that what we are facing and what we are giving is simply a handout to the oil companies , and what we are doing is simply trying to develop new sources of oil that is extremely expensive to reach .  we are drilling on some offshore platforms that cost billions of dollars to set in place .  we are drilling on those with great risk that we will lose money , and what we are simply saying is that deep well incentives should be in place .  now , the incentives that are in place for onshore production are either very difficult areas to drill in or the incentives only kick in after the price falls to a certain level .  madam chairman , it is time for us to pass an energy bill .  the consumers in this nation depend on it , and they are depending on republicans because our friends on the other side of the aisle refuse to help .  madam chairman , i think i am on a different bill than i just heard described here .  i applaud the energy efficiency and conservation in this bill .  i applaud the increasing of renewable technologies in this bill .  i applaud the hydrogen fuel cell program in this bill .  i applaud the next-generation nuclear in this bill .  i applaud the clean coal technology .  i applaud the incentives for deep gas drilling .  that is the one issue i do not think we do enough in this bill .  i believe we need to do much more to increase the supply of natural gas , and i hope in conference we can .  current natural gas prices are exporting thousands of american jobs , the best jobs we have , the chemical plants , fertilizer factories , and those who melt steel and ore and use a lot of national gas .  we as a country have an island to ourselves with natural gas ; they are not world prices .  when everybody pays $ 50 for oil , we have the highest prices for natural gas of all modern countries , and we are losing the companies who use large quantities of it .  just to compare , we are 40 percent higher on natural gas than europe .  we are 50 percent higher than japan .  we are 600 percent higher than south america .  we are 800 percent higher than russia .  we heat our homes , our schools , our hospitals , and our businesses with natural gas .  it is the bridge to hydrogen .  all hydrogen today generally is made from natural gas ; it is the easiest way to make it .  it can assist us in transportation , with our buses , taxi cabs , delivery trucks , by using natural gas rather than oil .  we need , in the final bill , to have a much stronger chapter with natural gas ; it is the one area that i think we need stronger in this bill .  madam chairman , may i inquire as to how much time is remaining .  mr. chairman , i reserve the balance of my time .  mr. chairman , i reserve the balance of my time .  mr. chairman , i ask unanimous consent to claim the time on our side .  mr. chairman , i reserve the balance of my time .  mr. chairman , section 1287 of h.r. 6 includes permissive rulemaking authority for the federal trade commission to adopt rules protecting the privacy of electric consumers from the disclosure of consumer information obtained in connection with the sale or delivery of electric energy to electric customers .  am i correct , sir , in understanding that it was the committee 's intent to grant the ftc rulemaking authority with respect to the information practices of utility companies not already regulated , or to the extent they are not already regulated , under the gramm-leach-bliley act ?  am i further correct that it was not the intention that utility companies be restricted in their ability to report payment history information to consumer reporting agencies ?  sir , am i further correct that it was not your intention that the ftc be given broad rulemaking authority with respect to the goods or services that can be offered to a customer simply because the customer uses electricity , but rather the ftc has the authority to regulate the offering or billing of products or services by utility companies ?  mr. chairman , i thank the gentleman for his clarifications and for his assistance and the assistance of his staff in this situation .  mr. chairman , you know you can not make a fat guy skinny by mandating smaller pant sizes .  people have to want to buy the vehicle that you are trying to sell them .  there is a reason that moms go through the pain and agony of buying an suv and a mini-van , because they are safe , because they can get their whole family in there , because they can put a bike in the back , and they can get all the groceries in there .  they buy them because they want them and they are safe .  the automobile companies today do not get enough credit for all of the money they are investing in trying to make these things efficient .  believe me , if they could get 40 miles to the gallon in an suv , they would be on these front steps having a press conference selling these things .  technology has not matched what consumers want .  let them do that .  you artificially interfere with where we are going , they are making huge strides .  to do this costs americans jobs .  it costs americans jobs .  let them do what they are doing best , and innovate their way to those high-mileage suvs and mini-vans so moms do not have to drive mini coopers .  mr. speaker , i appreciate the gentleman yielding me this time .  i want to talk about a very important issue that should appeal to all republicans and democrats in this house , and that is gas prices .  one provision that is included in this bill , the boutique fuel reduction act , is very , very important to reducing the price spikes that we are experiencing .  let me just explain .  this map right here of america looks like a piece of modern art .  it shows you all of the different fuels we have running around america .  because of the clean air act , a very good law , we never thought about having a federal fuel system , so today we have 18 different base blends of gasoline ; throw the different octanes in there , we have 45 different fuels .  so we have a full distribution system , national in scope ; we have pipelines and refineries that are meant to put one fuel out there for america that was built in the 1950s , 1960s , and 1970s , which was the last time that it was upgraded .  now , when we go from winter blend to summer blend gasoline , we throw all of these different blends into the system .  what that does for all of our consumers , our constituents , is it makes those boutique fuels short in supply and therefore high in price .  it makes the system which is running at full capacity very vulnerable to price spikes if there is any hiccup in supply .  this map of 45 different blends is a result .  the current ozone nonattainment areas , the blue areas on this map , 217 counties .  but now with the new 8-hour ozone rule which has been released last year , takes effect in 2 years , 474 counties in america will now be out of attainment with respect to the ozone rule .  that is the red counties .  that means we go from 217 counties to 474 counties that will have to select new blends of gasoline .  what this bill does is it says let us get some common sense to this system .  let us have the department of energy and the epa figure out a federal fuel system so we can maintain our clean air standards , but standardize our fuel blends so we can stabilize our supply of gasoline and therefore stabilize our price of gasoline .  if there is a problem in supply overnight , an immediate problem like we had in arizona last year , wisconsin on a couple of times with a pipeline break or a refinery fire , the epa has waiver authority on a 20-day basis to fix that .  the second thing we do is we cap the amount of fuel blends so the problem does not get any worse now that we are running to the 8-hour rules .  we can have clean air and cheap gas at the same time , mr. speaker .  that is what this bill does .  i urge adoption of this rule and this bill .  mr. chairman , the energy policy before us is comprehensive and timely .  it bolsters the economy while preserving the environment , recognizing that one need not be sacrificed for the other .  in addressing both present and future concerns , this plan provides real improvements to our energy policy with the goal of reducing our dependence on foreign oil .  this bill looks inward by expanding our refinery capacities and tapping into our domestic resources in an environmentally safe way .  this will help provide relief for rising gas prices and begin to safeguard us against the whims of opec .  beyond traditional energy , this plan promotes the development of renewable fuels .  by approving this bill , we will do much for the development and expansion of alternative fuels .  for example , the increased use of ethanol will not only reduce our dependence on foreign oil but will also benefit our economy and environment .  farmers in kansas and across the country stand ready to help with this effort .  we have gone without a national energy plan for far too long .  we must act now and finally pass this forward-looking energy plan into law .  mr. chairman , i am mindful of the limitations that the appropriations committee is under when funding project requests for the army corps of engineers .  i am also aware , however , that the committee works closely with the corps in this process , and that funding decisions are based largely on the priorities put forward by the corps .  with this in mind , i am very disappointed that the energy and water appropriations bill that we approved today did not contain funding for the cleanup of a logjam on jacobs creek in my district in coffey county , kansas .  i am disappointed because i have made it abundantly clear to the corps on numerous occasions that i hear more from constituents about this project than any other corps project in my district .  further , i have asked the corps to make it one of their highest priorities when it comes to funds spent in my district .  this logjam began in 1973 , but has only in recent years escalated to such a problematic level .  currently , the logjam covers an expanse of more than two miles .  along this stretch , boat docks are useless and garbage is trapped in the sediment .  the clog poses not only a health and safety hazard to area residents , but it also threatens the economic viability of the region .  if the corps had given this request the priority it deserved , it would have received funding .  the absence of funding for this project in the bill leads me to conclude that the corps has once again looked the other way .  i am disappointed that this crucial project has once again been ignored and i call on the corps to put their resources to work and remedy this situation .  i fully intend to continue working to see that this project is funded in the final version of this bill .  mr. chairman , i rise in opposition to the legislation .  mr. chairman , protecting our environment and promoting energy independence are two of the most important jobs i have as a member of congress .  unfortunately , the bill before us today represents a real missed opportunity to reduce our dependence on foreign oil , promote energy efficiency and conservation , and improve our air , land and water quality .  for decades , our country has lacked a national energy policy .  while i did not agree with the administration 's energy plan , i was grateful president bush put forward a comprehensive proposal .  the president 's energy plan was superior to the severely flawed bill before us today .  we had a chance to devise a forward-looking energy policy that would have increased fuel efficiency , made polluters ( including mtbe producers ) pay for harming our environment , and advanced a renewable portfolio standard .  instead what we have is quite a bad bill .  instead of creating a balanced energy policy that provides incentives to make renewable energy more affordable and widely available , we are making fiscally irresponsible and environmentally-reckless decisions for the benefit of a few profitable industries that do n't need this kind of help from taxpayers .  i fail to understand why the major thrust of the bill 's tax provisions involve further subsidizing the fossil fuel industry , rather than providing incentives for conservation and renewable sources of energy .  these are enormously profitable industries operating in a time of record energy prices .  clearly , these profits demonstrate the market has already provided the fossil fuel industries with sufficient incentive to increase production .  i strongly oppose a provision in the bill that allows for the permanent activation of the cross sound cable .  in doing so , the bill subverts the regulatory process and ignores sound environmental policy regarding the depth at which the cable should be buried .  in addition to its environmental shortsightedness , i also oppose provisions in this bill related to energy transmission .  for instance , the energy policy act allows the federal electric regulatory commission ( ferc ) to preempt state siting authorities when it is determined that a high-voltage power line is of `` national significance , '' and overrides state authorities when expanding or siting new liquefied natural gas ( lng ) terminals .  in our own long island sound just off connecticut , this is a very real possibility .  while energy security is a national issue , it seems to me the communities who will live with these siting decisions deserve a voice in the process .  finally , i strongly oppose opening the arctic national wildlife refuge to drilling .  we simply wo n't have a world to live in if we continue our neglectful ways .  in my judgment , it would be far better to develop prudent and lasting alternate fuel energies than to risk irreparable damage to the wilderness of one of north america 's most beautiful frontiers .  drilling in the arctic will not fix our energy problems -- with so little oil available up there it could n't possibly , as it will take a decade to get the oil down here .  that time would be far better spent developing clean , renewable energy sources that will provide infinite energy without imperiling our last remaining wilderness areas .  i look forward to the day when we will have an opportunity to vote for a fiscally-prudent , environmentally-responsible national energy policy .  today is not that day .  mr. chairman , on april 21 , i inadvertently missed a recorded vote .  i take my voting responsibility very seriously and would like the congressional record to reflect that i would have voted `` yes '' on recorded vote number 130 .  mr. chairman , i thank the gentleman from texas ( mr. barton )  for yielding me this time and for his great work on this bill .  it sounds like it is not the bill that i voted on , but i am very pleased to support it .  there is no more important bill in my time here in congress than the bill we are addressing today , and there is no more important bill for the state of illinois than the bill we are addressing today .  it makes all of the years of our work pay off because i think this time we will get it across the finish line because it meets the demands of the country .  we have to diversify our energy portfolio .  we can no longer rely on one fuel source , whether it is for electricity generation or to move our vehicles .  we have to diversify our energy portfolio , and that is what this bill does .  this bill brings clean coal technology , strengthens nuclear power ; and it actually helps renewable power in the aspect of wind power .  it does great things for relicensing hydroelectric power .  it helps expand the transmission grid and block the backlogs that helped cause the major blackout that we had 2 years ago .  it addresses a diversified energy portfolio on fuels .  it brings renewable fuels to the forefront in this debate .  gasoline is $ 2.20 , $ 2.30 .  consumers can buy e-85 ethanol fuel for $ 1.65 a gallon .  so what we have been doing in the past is working .  this bill addresses the supply end , and it also addresses the demand end .  we have to have a national energy policy .  we can no longer allow the country to not have a plan .  i am excited about an opportunity to pass this bill on the floor tomorrow , move it to conference , and get it to the president 's desk .  i want to commend the bipartisan majority that passed it out of the committee , and commend the chairman for his work .  mr. speaker , i demand a recorded vote .  mr. chairman , here we go again .  as i said , this is the third time , and it should be a charm .  we have passed this comprehensive legislation before ; and i know i speak for a lot of my colleagues , probably on both sides of the aisle , that we should finally move forward after the large increases in gasoline .  this is a timely piece of legislation .  the department of energy predicts by the year 2025 , u.s. oil and natural gas demand will rise by 46 percent with energy demand increasing 1 percent for every 2 percent in gdp growth .  this increase in demand at home , coupled with the explosion of demand worldwide , has led to the increase in the cost of crude oil .  to combat this , and the resulting record gas prices , the american people today are looking for congress to act and we are doing it .  this legislation contains a number of provisions that would lower gas prices .  h.r. 6 encourages more domestic production of oil , promotes a greater refining capacity , and increases the gasoline supply by stopping the proliferation of expensive regional boutique fuels .  mr. chairman , i urge my colleagues to support h.r. 6 and finally enact solid , comprehensive energy legislation for the american people .  mr. chairman , here we go again .  as they say , the third time 's the charm .  this is the third congress in a row we have tried to pass comprehensive energy legislation .  i know i speak for many of my colleagues in saying i hope we can finally move forward and enact this very important and increasingly timely legislation .  as we all know too well , energy is the lifeblood of the economy .  the availability of energy at reasonable prices is key to economic growth and stability .  comprehensive national energy policy must ensure affordable , reliable energy and also promote national security .  h.r. 6 does that and i urge all my colleagues to support it .  the department of energy predicts that by the year 2025 , u.s. oil and natural gas demand will rise by 46 percent , with energy demand increasing 1 percent for every 2 percent growth in gdp .  this increased demand at home , coupled with an explosion of demand worldwide , has lead to an increase in the cost of crude oil .  to combat this and the resulting record gas prices , the american people are looking to congress to act .  this legislation contains a number of provisions that would lower gas prices .  h.r. 6 encourages more domestic production of oil , promotes a greater refining capacity , and increases the gasoline supply by stopping the proliferation of expensive regional boutique fuels .  ending our dependence on foreign oil is not only important to the economy but also doubly important to national security .  currently , the u.s. imports about 60 percent of its oil .  the department of energy projects this number will increase to 73 percent by the year 2025 .  in order to ensure reliable and secure supplies of oil , we have no choice but to increase the domestic supply .  another way h.r. 6 increases domestic production of oil is by opening anwr to oil and gas exploration .  usgs estimates that there is between 5.7 and 16.0 billion barrels of oil that is technically recoverable .  this estimate does not take into account that with new technology , the share will become higher .  a resource of this magnitude can not simply be ignored .  h.r. 6 goes a long way to end our reliance on foreign oil .  i once again urge my colleagues to support h.r. 6 and finally enact solid , comprehensive energy legislation for the american people .  mr. speaker , we need an energy policy desperately in this country .  we needed it 30 years ago .  this is an excellent bill .  it addresses the energy policy in a very comprehensive way .  it addresses oil and gas .  it addresses conservation which people over here say it does not , and it does ; environmental issues , electrical , hydropower , everything is addressed , nuclear .  it is a very comprehensive bill .  and we need this for many perspectives , but most importantly passing this very important bill is important for national security issues as well as jobs and economic development .  you know , people talk about high gas prices in this country , and people go back to their districts and say that gas is high .  well , one way we can reduce the cost of gasoline for everyone in this country is we expand refining capacity in this country .  and we address this in this bill .  right now our refineries are operating at almost maximum capacity .  like our chairman said in the committee , if we added five new refineries today in america , it still would not address the demand that we have .  in many instances when we do get oil and gas drilled here domestically , sometimes we have to send that oil to another country to refine it , and we buy it back at a higher value .  that is what third world countries do , and we need to stop that .  it is very important that we address the anwr situation , and open anwr .  and a lot of the environmentalists will say , we can not do that , it might hurt some species of some animal or insect .  but we need to think of the human species from time to time .  if we open anwr , if you put it in perspective , if it was the size of the ou football field , the area that we are talking about drilling in would be the size of a postage stamp on that football field .  and the beauty of it is , we can produce oil , experts say , at least 2 million barrels a day out of anwr , and that is exactly what we were importing from saddam hussein in iraq before all of this 9/11 happened .  it is asinine that we rely so much on foreign oil , especially in areas around the world that we have carpet-bombed .  it is ridiculous .  so we need to spur domestic production , support this very important comprehensive energy bill that is for jobs and economic development , as well as a national security issue for this country .  i urge my colleagues to support it .  mr. speaker , i rise in support of the rule and the bill .  this legislation is perhaps the most important bill we will deal with in this session .  the lack of a comprehensive energy plan is hurting our families and our economy .  global energy demand is soaring , america 's natural resources are finite and flat , rising energy imports are driving record trade deficits as runaway energy costs drag down the u.s. economy .  unless we implement a long-term , comprehensive energy plan , americans will pay even more to heat their homes , drive their cars to work , and feed their families and provide other essentials for our loved ones .  for the members of this chamber , this bill is our opportunity to ensure a better future .  the committee on energy and commerce , along with other committees of jurisdiction , have produced an energy bill that recognizes today 's needs while preparing for the future .  to meet today 's energy needs , this legislation does several things .  it expands the nation 's natural gas supply , primarily by clarifying the federal government 's role in lng facilities .  it increases our supplies of gasoline and diesel by adding new refineries , limiting the number of specialty blends , and establishing a 5-billion-gallon renewable fuel standard .  this energy bill adds diversity to our energy portfolio by encouraging more nuclear power , clean coal , and renewable energies .  it doubles our efforts in energy conservation and efficiency , it reduces america 's dangerous dependence on foreign oil , and improves our nation 's electrical transmissions .  but this energy bill looks beyond the horizon as well .  by boosting the use of hydrogen fuel cells , microturbines , and other forms of new energy technologies , we can begin preparing to meet the energy demands of tomorrow .  i was proud to work with my colleague from across the aisle , the gentleman from pennsylvania ( mr. doyle )  to double the authorized funding for this year 's hydrogen title .  it is just one of many forward-thinking provisions in this legislation .  the energy sector represents a $ 650 billion piece of the american economy .  it is the engine that powers other sectors of the u.s. economy , and i urge my colleagues to vote `` yes '' on the rule and the bill .  madam speaker , i do appreciate the gentlewoman from tennessee yielding some to me so we can talk about what i think is one of the most important bills that we will vote on in the 109th congress , and that is a comprehensive energy package .  as the gentlewoman from tennessee mentioned , this bill is both forward thinking and now thinking .  there are alternative technologies .  there is i think an incredible statement toward renewable fuels and alternative technologies like the fuel cell , but we also have to recognize some of our issues that face us now , and what i am talking about is the price of natural gas and how it is impacting our economy and our families in america , especially agri business and small businesses .  natural gas , by the way , accounts for nearly a quarter of america 's energy supply and is used by more than half of the households and businesses in america .  in fact , in my district of omaha , nebraska , about 65 percent of the households are heated , and by the way , it gets cold , maybe not like in the gentlewoman 's part of tennessee , it gets pretty cold in omaha during the winter , and we rely on natural gas .  unfortunately , the united states faces a natural gas challenge that threatens the profitability of almost every sector of our economy , as well as our citizens ' quality of life .  nationwide natural gas prices just 5 years ago were $ 1.50 per thousand cubic feet .  today , as this chart shows , it is off the charts .  it is over $ 7 and has been for the last two to three weeks .  let us look at how the united states ' natural gas prices compare to the rest of the world .  in venezuela , it is about 70 cents per thousand cubic feet , 40 cents in africa , 80 cents in russia .  the next , by the way , is europe with $ 3.70 , less than half of what we pay in the united states .  farm states , including nebraska , have been hit especially hard by higher natural gas prices since natural gas is the primary material in nitrogen fertilizers , as well as the key fuel for irrigation and drying of grains .  anhydrous ammonia fertilizer has increased from about $ 175 per ton in 2000 to as much as $ 375 last planting season .  about half of america 's nitrogen fertilizer is now imported .  let me restate that .  nearly half of our farmers ' nitrogen fertilizer is now imported , mostly due to these high costs of natural gas .  this is going to have a severe impact on our economy and for our farmers .  the increased cost of natural gas has played a substantial role in losing nearly 3 million u.s. manufacturing jobs over the last 5 years , according to the industrial energy consumers of america .  whether these jobs were located in an auto plant in ohio or a petrochemical manufacturer in houston , many have been moved overseas , chasing the cheaper natural gas where it is more abundant and plentiful .  these reasons for concern are magnified when one considers u.s. natural gas consumption is expected to increase over the next 20 years .  simultaneously , domestic natural gas production is falling about 1 percent a year .  let me show my colleagues this chart .  we actually have a decent supply of natural gas , but most of it is off limits and stays off limits in this bill , especially around the coastal regions of california and florida .  we do encourage some additional domestic production of natural gas .  last year , this congress passed a pipeline from alaska down to chicago , but i am telling my colleagues , looking at the politics in alaska , this may take decades before that pipeline is run from alaska to the continental united states to provide some price relief for our economy and for heating our homes .  so we must look at these natural gas prices in a holistic way , meaning domestic production , pipeline , and we still have to realize that to meet the increased needs of natural gas within our united states , we are going to unfortunately have to import some of our natural gas .  otherwise , if we do not look at it in a holistic way , domestic , alaskan pipeline and liquid natural gas imports , natural gas prices may increase to $ 13 or $ 14 per thousand cubic feet .  unfortunately , to import liquid natural gas , we have got about three or four facilities today .  there are many applications to site liquid natural gas to an import terminal where the liquid natural gas comes in , it goes in , it is unloaded , it is turned into a gas and then put into pipelines , but we are experiencing the typical not-in-my-backyard with some extreme overexaggerations of the dangerousness of liquid natural gas .  because localities and states have played on this fear , those localities , in fact , in maine , a locality even , though the states have issued permits , are approved permits , a locality stops an lng terminal .  this forces us to have to look at different ways .  in this base bill , we in the committee on energy and commerce worked on this together in committee .  we recognized that what we have to do is streamline this process .  if we are going to help alleviate the pressures on price , we have to give more authority for this international and national commerce to the federal energy regulatory commission .  we want the states to have a part in here .  what we just do not want is for the states and localities , based on nimby , to have veto power .  this is in the base bill .  tomorrow , we are going to have a movement by a gentleman from massachusetts and delaware to strip out this provision , and it is only going to hurt manufacturers , small businesses , agri business and people who heat their homes with natural gas , companies that generate electricity by natural gas .  we must overcome this provision tomorrow for the overall economic and basically lifestyle of the citizens of the united states .  so i want to thank the gentlewoman for reserving this time so we can help educate our colleagues and america on something as important as liquid natural gas and its implications to their budgets at home .  mr. chairman , i thank the chairman for working with me to put this into the base bill .  since 1999 natural gas prices have more than tripled to over $ 7 .  it is off the charts now .  it is projected that if we do not do anything about natural gas supplies , it could reach $ 13 , $ 14 by 2020 .  what does that mean ?  it means higher heating bills ; 65 percent of my constituents heat their homes in nebraska by natural gas .  by the way , we have lost , mr. chairman , about 3 million jobs in the industrial manufacturing bases .  just for our farmers , our agricultural folks in the midwest , farmers have seen the prices of nitrogen fertilizer increase from $ 175 per ton in 2000 to more than $ 400 this planting season , and we have lost half of our fertilizer manufacturers chasing the lower natural gas prices .  mr. chairman , in regard to safety , the gentleman wrote into this language specifically giving the states the right to participate in this process , and i encourage my colleagues to vote `` no . '' madam chairman , i yield myself such time as i may consume .  once again the house is debating a `` comprehensive energy package. '' i do have to say that as far as the ways and means committee is concerned , it is just slightly less comprehensive than it has been in the past .  but that is because we understand , having gone through a conference with the senate , the kind of package that will maximize our chances in producing a fair and balanced tax section .  in discussing what we do in this particular bill , and i enjoy hearing people discuss it as though it is the conference report that is in front of us , it is in fact , and i will say it flatly , and in a negotiating position , before us to sit down and work with the senate .  it does have renewable provisions in the tax package , but by a small amount .  the majority focus is on the infrastructure of this country , the electric power lines , gas collecting lines , and supporting a structure which will be the backbone of our energy needs clearly for the next quarter of a century before any of the innovative approaches begin to carry a significant share of our energy needs .  i might also caution members not to get too carried away looking at this particular piece of legislation under the heading of an energy bill and assume that we have done nothing since the conference report that was agreed upon between the house and senate was passed by the house and not the senate .  i would ask you to go back and refer to legislation passed just a short time ago under the title of the working families tax relief act .  in that bill we had incentives for wind , open biomass , electric cars , and alternative-fuel vehicles .  in the american jobs creation act , we provided incentives for ethanol , biodiesel , geothermal , solar , open biomass , municipal solid mass , and refined coal .  i know the other side is going to offer that constant lament , what have you done for me lately ?  the answer is , let us get to conference , put together a package , once again come to the floor of the house with a conference agreement , we will pass that conference agreement , and the senate will pass that conference agreement .  and i will conclude my opening remarks by saying , i was very pleased that on the ways to the means committee , five democrats understood , one , the strategy that we are undertaking , and , two , supported the content of that strategy by voting for the ways and means position .  i know a number of people have a definition of bipartisan , but based upon the recent history of the ways and means committee , five democrats supporting a measure offered in that committee is unprecedented bipartisan support .  and i was very pleased for it .  madam chairman , i retain the balance of my time .  madam chairman , i yield myself 10 seconds .  i anxiously look forward to the debate on the democrat substitute and would willingly yield time to the gentleman from washington ( mr. mcdermott )  to make all the points he just made on the majority bill on the minority bill since they include in their entirety the tax section of the majority 's bill .  madam chairman , i yield myself 15 seconds .  i also look forward to seeking to yield to my friend from texas ( mr. doggett )  during the debate on the minority substitute bill , because the provision he just viciously attacked on the floor as being totally unacceptable is in the democrats ' bill as well .  i look forward to having those words spoken against their own substitute because it contains exactly the same language .  madam chairman , how much time is left ?  and the other side ?  and who has the right to close ?  we have one speaker remaining .  madam chairman , i would inquire of the chair , the 1 minute that was on the minority side , does that expire ?  madam chairman , i appreciate that , and i yield myself 15 seconds .  if we could get the mileage out of the gallon of gasoline that they get out of 1 minute , we would not need an energy policy in this country .  first of all , i want to thank the five democrats on the committee on ways and means who had the courage to vote for this excellent tax provision .  understanding the pressure they are under , based upon the comments that were just made , truly it was a heroic vote .  reclaiming my time , mr. speaker , i want to move the process forward .  i want to get to the senate .  but i want a bill that is good for america .  and i want the president 's proposal .  i want the 72 percent on renewables and energy efficiency and alternatives and clean fuels , extend the tax credit so people will drive these hybrid cars .  this does not even extend that tax credit .  it is not enough .  we need to do more .  mr. chairman , i rise to make remarks on the subrogation provision in the price anderson section of h.r. 6 .  mr. chairman , i would like to discuss a provision in this bill that i have some concerns with .  i have the pleasure of representing the department of energy sites in oak ridge , tennessee .  this site is a natural asset that not only has a vitally important defense mission , a growing and prominent science mission , but an ongoing active environmental cleanup activity .  i am proud of the caliber of contractors we have in oak ridge and the work they do for our country .  i have some concerns with section 612 in the nuclear title of this bill .  this provision , dealing with price anderson act indemnity , is reportedly designed to make doe contractors more `` financially accountable '' for their actions in support of the doe nuclear mission .  the fact is that there are already a wide variety of mechanisms in place to ensure doe contractor accountability : from civil penalties of up to $ 110 , 000 a day ; to stop work orders ; to contract terminations ; to criminal fines and imprisonment .  there is no evidence that additional sanctions are needed .  in the 48-year history of price anderson , no government contractors have been found to have engaged in `` willful misconduct. '' are we willing to ask the government 's best contractors at all levels , the ones we want involved in this business , to face significantly increased financial risks that have and will likely remain uninsurable ?  i believe that we presently have sufficient mechanisms in place to hold the contracting community accountable .  the inclusion of this provision in the final energy bill will have the opposite effect as intended .  rather than adding to financial accountability it will drive the most prudent and best performing contractors out of the doe nuclear market .  i do not want to imagine a time when the activities at oak ridge are not being conducted by the most qualified doe contractors .  if section 612 was enacted , i fear that it will have a detrimental impact on not only the defense mission of doe , but on most of the government 's nuclear science activities .  i look forward to working with chairman barton and the energy and commerce committee to perfect this provision as we head to conference with the senate .  mr. chairman , i thank the gentleman for yielding me this time .  i want to make some brief comments and then engage in some colloquy with the chairman .  not to repeat anything that has been already said , but just to highlight why i can believe this is such an excellent work product , really three reasons : one , this chairman over the last 2 1/2 years has gone out into the country , both on the water side and on the energy side , gone into the depths of very complex places like our nuclear weapons complex , gone into our scientific research institutions , energy research , gone and seen demonstrations and the advancement of technology , and tried hard to understand what needs to be proposed .  this chairman deserves tremendous credit .  at no time in my 9 years on the committee on appropriations have i seen this kind of diligence that the gentleman from ohio ( chairman hobson ) has shown .  secondly , it has been very fair and very bipartisan all along the way .  third , this is one of the greatest assimilations of professional staff on both sides of the aisle , people with expertise and experience coming to the same subcommittee at the same time at a very important time .  my hat is off to all of these individuals for their diligence .  mr. chairman , if i may engage in a colloquy , i would like to say a few words on the importance of fielding a leadership-class computer for open science .  for the past 2 years under your leadership , this subcommittee has provided additional funds to achieve this goal , and i thank you for this commitment .  the oak ridge national laboratory and its partners were competitively selected to carry out this effort .  with the additional funds provided by this bill , they will continue down that path .  the mr. chairman , i thank the gentleman .  in the subcommittee bill in the area of fusion energy sciences , the subcommittee offered a very reasonable approach to funding fusion science , given the uncertainty surrounding the thermonuclear experimental reactor equipment .  as the subcommittee report notes : `` if the united states expects to be a serious contributor to international fusion research in general , and iter in particular , the nation needs to maintain strong domestic research programs and user facilities to train the next generation of fusion scientists and engineers. '' i think that is exactly right , and i want to commend the gentleman and subcommittee staff for putting that strong statement in our report .  mr. chairman , i want to highlight one area in particular that we fund and ask for the gentleman from ohio 's comments .  our bill provides $ 5.1 million for `` compact stellarators and small-scale experiments. '' i understand that to be a reference to experiments such as the quasi-polloidal stellarator , or qps , that is being developed by the oak ridge national laboratory .  mr. chairman , i ask the gentleman from ohio , is my understanding correct ?  mr. chairman , i rise today to speak in support of h.r. 6 , the energy policy act of 2005 .  it 's a tremendous step in the right direction for this nation to achieve energy independence .  through a combined strategy of strong r & amp ; d , efficiency and incentives we can help ensure future generations of americans a vibrant and growing economy while not having to worry about the whims of foreign influence on our energy .  the bill also authorizes $ 200 million for the `` clean cities '' program , which will provide grants to state and local governments to acquire alternative fueled vehicles .  i have been working in central florida over the past several years to promote research into hydrogen-powered vehicles .  i applaud the white house for taking such a proactive stance on new technologies .  this bill promotes a cleaner environment by encouraging new innovations and the use of alternative power sources by launching a state-of-the-art program to enable hydrogen fuel cell cars to compete in the marketplace by 2020 .  under this bill , american consumers will have better product labeling for a number of commercial and household products so that they will be able to make more informed decisions when purchasing energy saving products .  h.r. 6 further decreases america 's dangerous dependence on foreign oil by expanding domestic production and authorizing expansion of the strategic petroleum reserve 's capacity to 1 billion barrels of oil .  america 's energy consumption is at an all-time high and rising , despite ongoing efficiency gains , with consumption projected to grow as our economy expands .  if our nation is to meet these needs in the coming decades , it will be in part due to continued advances in energy efficiency and conservation -- helping to reduce our demand on foreign supply and stimulating economic growth .  one goal is to save consumers and businesses ' money spent on energy , so they can invest , spend and grow the economy and improve our standard of living .  expanding our energy production capacity is a key to long-term economic growth and energy independence .  h.r. 6 encourages the great american tradition of technological innovation and creative problem solving .  it is america working at its best and this legislation is long overdue .  i stand in strong support of this legislation and look forward to seeing it enacted into law .  madam chairman , i rise in strong support of h.r. 6 , balanced legislation designed to reduce our dependence on imported energy , a balanced approach that has earned bipartisan support in the house committee on ways and means , emphasizes conservation , alternative sources of energy , as well as finding more domestic sources of energy .  i take my brief amount of time to focus on what i consider to be the most consumer-oriented provision of this legislation , legislation that rewards conservation , conservation at home .  twenty percent of all the energy we consume in america , one-fifth of our energy consumed , is consumed at home .  in fact , the average american spends about $ 1 , 500 a year in heating and cooling their home .  just think if they could save 10 , 20 , 30 percent .  it means not only energy conservation to save energy but it would help their pocketbooks as well .  this legislation today contains provisions out of h.r. 1212 , legislation that provides up to a $ 2 , 000 tax credit that homeowners can use in their existing home to make it more energy efficient , put in better windows , better doors , better insulation , do a better job of sealing the home .  if they meet the federal standard by reducing their energy consumption by 30 percent , they can reduce their taxes with up to a $ 2 , 000 tax credit , 20 percent of the first $ 10 , 000 they invest .  bottom line is we need to encourage energy conservation .  what better place to start than right at home .  i urge bipartisan support for this legislation .  mr. chairman , the civil works program of the corps of engineers provides water resources development projects that are important to the nation .  i believe the restrictions on reprogramming of funds and the constraints on the use of continuing contracts contained in this bill will lead to the inefficient use of appropriated funds and will disadvantage congressionally-added projects .  congress does not fully fund projects in a given fiscal year and the schedule for constructing these large water resources projects is subject to the weather , environmental conditions , and other dynamic circumstances .  as a result , reprogramming and continuing contacts are important tools that allow for the efficient use of appropriated funds .  i share the concerns that the appropriations committee has for some of the reprogramming activities of the corps of engineers and the way they have used continuing contracts for some of their projects .  however , the constraints in this bill are too restrictive .  section 101 only allows a reprogramming of $ 2 million or less per project .  this is not enough to allow the corps to effectively move money around among projects when projects are delayed or when they can be accelerated .  also , the bill earmarks nearly all available funding , which makes it impossible for the corps to pay back those projects that it took money from in previous reprogramming .  i must disagree also with the restriction placed on continuing contracts by this bill .  while there may have been some unwise uses of continuing contracts by the corps , the restrictions in this bill are too severe .  they will lead to inefficient use of funds and a bias against congressional priority projects .  as a result of the constraints on reprogramming , a lot of money will be carried over each fiscal year and work will have to be broken up into many smaller units making projects more expensive .  current law requires the corps to use continuing contracts whenever funds are provided in an appropriations act , but there is not enough money to complete the project .  only funds for that fiscal year are reserved , but the contractor can proceed with additional work with the understanding that payment is subject to future appropriations .  section 104 is inconsistent with current law in that it restricts the amount of work a contractor can do to only that which can be accomplished with fy 06 funds .  under section 104 , the contractor can not proceed at his own risk in anticipation of fy 07 and future year funding .  the contractor will have to stop work and wait for a new contract the next year .  section 104 is legislative in nature and i intend to make a point of order that will strike it from the bill .  section 105 further restricts the use of continuing contracts and has the remarkable effect of restricting the corps ' ability to carry out congressionally-added projects in this appropriation bill .  section 105 states that none of the funds provided in fy 06 may be used to award a continuing contract that extends into fy 07 unless the administration budgets for the project in fy 07 .  this means that even if a member has funding for a project in this bill , for fy 06 , not fully funded , there are three options : ( 1 ) hope to award a continuing contract before administration comes out with its budget in february of 2006 , ( 2 ) award a single year contract for only one increment of the project ( resulting in increased costs ) , or ( 3 ) wait until fiscal year 2008 to award a continuing contract for the project ( delaying project construction and project benefits ) .  these restrictions apply to on-going as well as new projects .  in alaska , there are currently eight projects under construction using continuing contracts .  seven of these are not in the president 's budget .  i expect that before this bill becomes law , it will contain funding for all of these projects .  nevertheless , under section 105 of the bill , a continuing contract could not be used in fy 06 , and the corps will have to break the projects into smaller pieces or wait until fy 08 to spend the fy 06 appropriated funds .  i believe the restrictions in this bill will delay these important projects in alaska and make them more expensive .  this is a problem that will be repeated for other members for projects all over the country .  finally , i want to applaud the committee 's efforts to get additional information from the administration during the budget process .  information is needed for all projects , not just the ones in the administration 's budget .  in addition , i believe that a 5-year schedule of spending for each project will allow the congress to better appropriate funding that can match the corps capabilities for individual projects .  chairman hobson and ranking member visclosky are to be commended for their efforts to see that program management and budgeting at the corps of engineers are put back on track .  while i have reservations about the effects of some of the measures required by this bill , i believe i can work with the committee leadership as this bill moves forward to see that my concerns are addressed in conference .  mr. chairman , i rise today in support of the energy policy act of 2005 .  this important legislation is critical to protecting and preserving our nation 's freedom , security , and prosperity .  over the past decade , the united states ' energy consumption has increased by more than twelve percent ; however , our domestic production has increased by less than one-half of one percent .  that means that our nation is more and more reliant on foreign sources of energy .  when our nation depends on just a few countries for the majority of our energy , this adversely impacts american security .  this is unacceptable .  mr. chairman , the energy policy act of 2005 sets forth a comprehensive national energy policy .  it reduces foreign energy dependence by requiring conservation and domestic exploration .  by using less energy and opening up new areas for environmentally-responsible exploration , we will become less dependent on foreign sources of energy .  finally , the energy policy act of 2005 will provide an environment of certainty and stability that will foster prosperity in america .  rising energy prices is like a tax that americans must pay everyday in the form of higher gas prices , higher costs to heat and cool our homes , and higher prices to move products across the country .  having a comprehensive energy policy will allow businesses to flourish as we will have reliable and dependable sources of energy .  mr. chairman , as a supporter of the energy policy act of 2005 , i encourage my colleagues to vote for this responsible measure .  mr. chairman , i rise to claim the time in opposition .  mr. chairman , i reserve the balance of my time .  mr. chairman , i yield myself the balance of my time .  i agree with my colleagues and i agree with the president .  i agree , with the price of oil above $ 50 a barrel , we do not need relief .  this provision does not do that .  let me be clear .  under the current mms rules , what this provision would do would simply provide relief for those companies making multiyear in many cases , multi , hundreds of millions of dollars of investments to produce oil for our country 's needs .  we have a choice .  many of my colleagues do not want us drilling for oil off the coast of florida and do not want us to drill for oil off the coast of california .  i would ask those colleagues to join with me in providing incentives so we can drill for oil in the deep waters of the gulf of mexico .  the people of louisiana welcome this production .  we know it is good for our state , our country , and for our economy .  we have a choice .  we have to meet the growing energy needs of our country .  what this provision simply does is make it economical for companies to take greater risk than they have ever had to take before to allow them to raise the capital and spend hundreds of millions of dollars , maybe even a billion dollars , on these rigs to produce the energy that our country so desperately needs , that our farmers need , that our petrochemical industry needs .  we have a choice .  we do stand with the president saying , no , we do not need relief at $ 50 , but we do need relief to make sure that there continues to be production , especially if the price falls below that threshold .  but we have a choice : do we produce our own energy needs , or do we become increasingly dependent on foreign sources ?  we have a choice .  do we drill in the deep waters of the gulf of mexico where such production is welcomed and invited , or do we look to other areas where that production is not welcomed and not invited ?  i do stand behind our president , and i invite my colleagues to also stand with our president and support the language as written , support the overall energy bill , and vote for domestic production .  vote to keep manufacturing in our country , vote so we can become more independent of foreign sources of energy .  the language as written is good language .  it does not provide relief today .  it does not provide those incentives today , but it allows companies to raise money to take risks to produce our country 's domestic energy needs .  mr. speaker , on rollcall no .  112 i was unavoidably detained .  had i been present , i would have voted `` yea. '' stated against : mr. speaker , i want to thank the gentlewoman very much for organizing this effort on behalf of h.r. 6 , the energy policy act of 2005 .  as we all know , gas prices are skyrocketing , as are the costs of heating and cooling our homes .  many families and businesses are struggling under the additional financial burden .  i am encouraged we have the opportunity to tackle this issue head on and take the necessary steps to reduce the cost of energy .  hard-working americans are depending on us to take action .  h.r. 6 will lower energy prices , strengthen the economy , generate hundreds of thousands of new jobs , and encourage greater energy conservation and efficiency .  this bill will also reduce our dependence on foreign oil and encourage investment into alternative energy sources .  furthermore , this bill will provide relief to our hard-working farmers by providing tax incentives and money for research and development for ethanol and biodiesel energy sources .  i hope all of our colleagues are going to vote for this vital piece of legislation .  mr. chairman , i thank the gentlewoman for yielding me this time .  mr. chairman , i agree with the chairman of the committee on science .  we have an opportunity to do better .  i hope that we do better as we improve the hydrogen title of this bill .  perhaps the other body will have a title that will work a little bit better in the hydrogen area , and i hope that we will catch the vision of a different way of getting around .  imagine that one takes delivery today in spartanburg , south carolina of a brand new bmw .  it runs on hydrogen .  it is powered and controlled by a computer , maybe made by ibm , maybe software by microsoft .  these are companies committed to making hydrogen and to making smart cars work .  they get in the car , they program it to go somewhere , they take their hands off the wheel .  it seems like science fiction , but the good news is that we on the committee on science are in the business of making science fiction into reality , and it is not that far away .  if we can make a commitment like we made when we decided to go to the moon , we can get there .  we as a nation can decide that now is the time to really commit to forging ahead to create a hydrogen economy .  now is the time to be spending good money on that .  it is time to stop simple spending and start thoughtful investing .  there is a big difference .  in this bill we have the opportunity to do just that , to invest serious money in the technology that can lead us to a hydrogen economy .  if we do that , we will do good work for the american people and we will lessen our dependence on middle eastern oil .  and , by the way , it is also about jobs .  if we can retool the automobile and make it so that we not just develop the technology but also produce it here , we can tremendously expand the economy of the united states , providing jobs and , while doing that , cleaning up the environment and reducing the oil pressure on the middle east .  that is a trifecta .  let us get about it with a better title .  mr. speaker , i thank the gentleman from texas ( mr. sessions )  for yielding me time .  many of you have heard the story about the fellow that was sitting on his porch and water came trickling through his yard .  a fellow drove by in his jeep and said , jump on , the dam is giving way ; this place is going to be flooded .  and he said , i 've got faith in god ; god is going to save me .  the guy drives off .  here comes more water .  here comes a boat .  the guy in the boat says , jump in , there is more water coming .  the guy , no , i have faith in god ; god is going to save me .  and he climbs up on the rooftop as the water gets higher and higher .  here comes a helicopter .  he drops a ladder and with a megaphone says , grab hold of the ladder .  the man says , no , i have got faith in god ; god is going to save me .  the water gets higher .  the man drowns .  he goes to heaven .  he says , god i had faith in you .  why did you not save me ?  god said , i sent you a jeep and a boat and helicopter , why did you not make use of it ?  when we hear people crying today , we need oil , we need gasoline with prices that are down , we need natural gas prices to come down , i can not help but hear this small voice saying , use what i gave you .  this nation has been so richly blessed with so much in the way of resources .  it is time to end the excuses .  we can always find excuses , things we do not like about any bill .  they sure do that down the hall .  it is time to end the excuses .  it is time down the hall to finally do the right thing and use the resources with which this nation has been so richly blessed .  madam speaker , i want to thank the gentlewoman from tennessee for yielding to me .  i very much appreciate it because this is such an important issue for all of our country , but especially for our district in east texas .  the eastern side of my district is louisiana , and it is actually quite a help for louisiana as well .  but the things we are talking about , the resources that we have in our district include oil , gas , coal , lignite , biomass material .  that could be made from things like corn maize or soy , but also from forestry material that is left over when lumber is made .  there are so many jobs that will be assisted and created .  it is estimated that there could be half a million jobs created as a result of the energy bill that we are discussing here .  some people worry about the environmental effects of an energy bill and encouraging energy production , but i want to tell the members i am familiar with oil wells , i am familiar with gas wells , i am familiar with lignite .  i was just in a couple of lignite mines in my district in the last 2 weeks , and we worry about the destruction of property , but when we see what has been done and the way the land is reclaimed and reestablished , it ends being a work of art .  the hardwoods are put back .  the streams are back better than ever .  the hillsides , it is just beautiful what has been done .  plus the renewable resources like pine trees are there .  it is a good thing for east texas .  of course we have heard in anwr previously that it would destroy the caribou population .  when the pipeline was going to be laid , many of us remember back in the 1970s they said it was just going to decimate the caribou .  as it turned out , there were about 3 , 000 caribou back then .  now there are around 32 , 000 , as it turns out , because that oil is warmed as it goes through the pipeline to keep it flowing .  when caribou want to ask each other for dates , they go to the pipeline and it makes them really romantic-thinking .  so it has actually increased the population there .  when people complained we should not have oil and gas wells out in the coast because it is going to destroy the fish and the teeming life in the gulf of mexico , it turns out after they put offshore rigs out there , that is where commercial fishermen went because that was an artificial reef and it ended up helping fishing as well .  there is so much technology that has been developed over the last 30 and 40 years that has been good for everybody .  we also have the eastman plant , actually more in harrison county but there by longview , and they use natural gas to make plastic products , all kinds of products there .  this will help them .  it will create cheaper natural gas .  if we have cheaper natural gas , the papermill that had to close down in lufkin because they could not get cheap enough gas ; they are planning on reopening if that can happen .  that just does not help lufkin .  it helps st .  augustine and hemphill .  they worked there at the paper mill .  clear up in longview there is a man who lost 7 percent of his business when the paper mill closed all because of energy costs .  these things can come back .  but not only that , we do a lot of drilling .  these small business companies in east texas , we have got the drillers themselves that go back to work .  we have got land men going to work getting leases on the land .  we have got the owners that are getting that lease money .  we have got people that retain mineral interests getting royalties back .  we have got people that are going back during the production , the service companies rehiring folks .  we have got the steel producers , companies that are renting equipment to those facilities .  we have got independent drillers that are doing well .  there are workers of all kinds and their families that are all having their lives made better .  we have got clean coal technologies that are going to assist us and keep the air clean and make the environment just as good or better after the production of coal .  there are so many good things that result for the nation and especially for my district .  and let me just say on a personal note , with all of the things that a good energy bill will do for the nation and do for our district , i feel good about what we are doing and i appreciate the gentlewoman 's yielding to me because it does mean a lot .  to take it to a very personal note , i have got three daughters .  two are away in college now , and our youngest is a junior in high school .  sarah 's birthday is tomorrow , and i do not remember not being there on the morning of one of my kids ' birthdays .  she will be 17 tomorrow .  and i hate like heck missing her birthday tomorrow , but we are going to pass us an energy bill tomorrow .  and if i did not believe with all my heart that i was helping to make this country better for my children , then i would but we are doing good , and i am proud to be a part of a majority that is working to make america better .  mr. chairman , i reserve the balance of my time .  mr. speaker , by direction of the committee on rules , i call up house resolution 258 and ask for its immediate consideration .  mr. speaker , i ask unanimous consent that all members may have 5 legislative days within which to revise and extend their remarks .  mr. speaker , for the purpose of debate only , i yield the customary 30 minutes to the gentlewoman from new york ( ms. slaughter )  , pending which i yield myself such time as i may consume .  during consideration of this resolution , all time yielded is for the purpose of debate only .  mr. speaker , on wednesday the committee on rules met and reported a rule for consideration of the conference report on h.r. 1268 , the emergency supplemental act for defense , the global war on terror , and tsunami relief act , 2005 .  the rule waives all points of order against the conference report and provides that the report shall be considered as read .  additionally , it authorizes the chairman of the house committee on the judiciary to file a supplemental report to accompany h.r. 748 .  mr. speaker , h.r. 1268 , the emergency supplemental appropriation , is intended to fully fund our forces overseas and at home .  it helps to ensure the full funding of the important accounts which have been depleted during our global war on terror and our effort to assist the iraqi and afghan people in their efforts to establish functioning democracies in their countries .  additionally , the bill includes important funding for afghan reconstruction and counter-terrorism assistance , counternarcotics efforts , international food aid , and relief to address the terrible tragedies resulting from the massive tsunami that struck the southwest pacific and indian oceans in december of 2004 .  mr. speaker , additionally , this rule provides important increases in coverage for the servicemembers ' group life insurance and increases coverage for individual soldiers from $ 250 , 000 to $ 400 , 000 .  it also increases the one-time death benefit from $ 12 , 000 to $ 100 , 000 .  while neither of these benefits can ever replace the lives of brave american service personnel lost in action , they can assist their families through the hard times they will face while recovering from the loss of their loved ones .  mr. speaker , house resolution 258 allows us to fully debate the important issues surrounding the war on terror .  just yesterday we saw on the front page of the washington post a graphic photograph that captured the terrible effects of the war on an innocent victim and the courage and compassion of the american soldiers who are engaged in the battle .  we should keep this image in mind as we commence the debate on the conference report today .  more than any words i could ever utter , that picture illustrates the nobility of our effort , the valor and decency of our soldiers , and the evil and fanaticism of our enemies .  many may wish to raise policy issues in this debate .  that is certainly appropriate .  others may want to discuss issues that , however important , are superfluous to the war on terrorism .  mr. speaker , i believe in this discussion we should focus our remarks on what truly counts .  we have committed 170 , 000 of our servicemen and -women to fight terrorism and advance the cause of freedom in iraq and afghanistan .  we owe them our full support in the battles they wage on behalf of the american people and the cause of liberty .  this rule and the underlying bill represent the efforts of congress to keep that solemn commitment to the sons and daughters of america .  mr. speaker , to that end i urge support for the rule and the underlying bill .  mr. speaker , i reserve the balance of my time .  mr. speaker , i yield myself such time as i may consume .  mr. speaker , i want to quickly respond to a couple of points that my good friend made .  first , i would remind him that we did not pay for world war ii or korea or vietnam out of current revenue .  it is not unusual to finance wars in this particular fashion .  second , as to the point on the embassy , i have been to iraq four times and have met with our folks there and , frankly , i think they deserve the very best protection they can get as quick as we can get it .  they are every bit as much at risk as people that wear the uniform of the united states .  they are all volunteers .  they have done a wonderful job representing our country .  they deserve and need a safe place to operate out of .  i am very glad that that particular measure was put back in during conference .  mr. speaker , i reserve the balance of my time .  mr. speaker , i reserve the balance of my time .  mr. speaker , i reserve the balance of my time .  mr. speaker , i yield myself such time as i may consume .  mr. speaker , i feel compelled to respond to some of the points my good friend , the gentlewoman from california ( ms. lee )  made .  not helping our soldiers ?  a blank check ?  this bill is anything but a blank check .  let me read a couple of things in here .  just running down operations and maintenance , navy , $ 3.4 billion ; operations and maintenance , marine corps .  there is line after line of great specificity my good friend , the chairman of the committee on appropriations was very careful in crafting a bill that will meet the needs of our personnel .  the immoral thing to do would be to commit 170 , 000 people to combat and not resupply them and not reequip them and not give them the things they need on a daily basis to not only be successful , but to provide for their own safety and security .  it is very legitimate to debate the war .  although i remind my good friend on the other side of the aisle , this body and the other body vote on a bipartisan basis to make the commitment in iraq .  i could read off name after name , including the distinguished nominee from the other body , of my friends on the other side of the aisle , a candidate for president last time , who voted in favor of this particular contest .  having made that decision , once we place people on the line under fire and in danger , we owe it to them to provide them what they need .  we can continue to debate policy .  that is a very legitimate point , but i think it would it be the height of folly and irresponsibility to not fund people when they are in the field in action .  frankly , it would send the wrong signal to our adversaries , and more importantly , the wrong signal to our own men and women and their families .  and not to support the rule , and certainly not to support the supplemental appropriations , i believe , would be a grave and terrible mistake for this country .  mr. speaker , i reserve the balance of my time .  i certainly am prepared .  mr. speaker , i yield myself such time as i may consume .  in closing , i would like to say that i believe we have had a good debate on the rule today .  i believe the importance and timeliness of this legislation could not be more self-evident .  this bill has been carefully crafted and worked in a way to ensure that our service men and women receive the best supplies and equipment when they go to war and that those supplies and equipment are replenished and replaced in a timely fashion .  finally , i would ask members to recall that this is a vote about our willingness to support our service men and women , not about other policy issues .  the men and women serving our cause in iraq ask for nothing more .  in good conscience , we should give them nothing less .  mr. speaker , i would urge my colleagues to support the rule and the underlying legislation .  the material previously referred to by ms. slaughter  is as follows : previous question for h. res. 258 -- rule on conference report for h.r. 1268 emergency supplemental appropriations act for defense , the global war on terror , and tsunami relief act , 2005 strike all after the resolved clause and insert : `` that upon adoption of this resolution it shall be in order to consider the conference report to accompany the bill ( h.r. 1268 ) making emergency supplemental appropriations for defense , the global war on terror , and tsunami relief , for the fiscal year ending september 30 , 2005 , and for other purposes .  all points of order against the conference report and against its consideration are waived .  the conference report shall be considered as read .  sec .  2. the chairman of the committee on the judiciary is authorized , on behalf of the committee , to file a supplemental report to accompany h.r. 748 .  sec .  3. ( a ) a concurrent resolution specified in subsection ( b ) is hereby adopted .  ( b ) the concurrent resolution referred to in subsection ( a ) is a concurrent resolution ( 1 ) which has no preamble ; ( 2 ) the title of which is as follows : `` providing for corrections to the enrollment of the conference report on the bill h.r. 1268 `` ; and ( 3 ) the text of which is as follows : at the end of the ( conference report ) bill add the following new title : sec .  1. there is hereby created a select committee on the model of the truman committee to investigate the awarding and carrying out of contracts to conduct activities in afghanistan and iraq and to fight the war on terrorism ( hereinafter referred to as the `` select committee '' ) .  sec .  2. the select committee is to be composed of 15 members of the house , to be appointed by the speaker ( of whom 7 shall be appointed upon the recommendation of the minority leader ) , one of whom shall be designated as chairman from the majority party and one of whom shall be designated ranking member from the minority party .  any vacancy occurring in the membership of the select committee shall be filled in the same manner in which the original appointment was made .  the select committee shall conduct an ongoing study and investigation of the awarding and carrying out of contracts by the government to conduct activities in afghanistan and iraq and to fight the war on terrorism and make such recommendations to the house as the select committee deems appropriate regarding the following matters : ( 1 ) bidding , contracting , and auditing standards in the issuance of government contracts ; ( 2 ) oversight procedures ; ( 3 ) forms of payment and safeguards against money laundering ; ( 4 ) accountability of contractors and government officials involved in procurement ; ( 5 ) penalties for violations of law and abuses in the awarding and carrying out of government contracts ; ( 6 ) subcontracting under large , comprehensive contracts ; ( 7 ) inclusion and utilization of small businesses , through subcontracts or otherwise ; and ( 8 ) such other matters as the select committee deems appropriate .  sec .  3. ( a ) quorum -- one-third of the members of the select committee shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of business except for the reporting of the results of its study and investigation ( with its recommendations ) or the authorization of subpoenas , which shall require a majority of the committee to be actually present , except that the select committee may designate a lesser number , but not less than two , as a quorum for the purpose of holding hearings to take testimony and receive evidence .  ( b ) powers. -- for the purpose of carrying out this resolution , the select committee may sit and act during the present congress at any time and place within the united states or elsewhere , whether the house is in session , has recessed , or has adjourned and hold such hearings as it considers necessary and to require , by subpoena or otherwise , the attendance and testimony of such witnesses , the furnishing of information by interrogatory , and the production of such books , records , correspondence , memoranda , papers documents , and other things and information of any kind as it deems necessary , including relevant classified materials .  ( c ) issuance of subpoenas -- a subpoena may be authorized and issued by the select committee in the conduct of any investigation or series of investigations or activities , only when authorized by a majority of the members voting , a majority being present .  authorized subpoenas shall be signed by the chairman or by any member designated by the select committee , and may be served by any person designated by the chairman or such member .  subpoenas shall be issued under the seal of the house and attested by the clerk .  the select committee may request investigations , reports , and other assistance from any agency of the executive , legislative , and judicial branches of the government .  ( d ) meetings -- the chairman , or in his absence a member designated by the chairman , shall preside at all meetings and hearings of the select committee .  all meetings and hearings of the select committee shall be conducted in open session , unless a majority of members of the select committee voting , there being in attendance the requisite number required for the purpose of hearings to take testimony , vote to close a meeting or hearing .  ( e ) applicabilities of rules of the house -- the rules of the house of representatives applicable to standing committees shall govern the select committee where not inconsistent with this resolution .  ( f ) written committees rules -- the select committee shall adopt additional written rules , which shall be public , to govern its procedures , which shall not be inconsistent with this resolution or the rules of the house of representatives .  sec .  4. ( a ) appointment of staff -- the select committee staff shall be appointed , and may be removed , by the chairman and shall work under the general supervision and direction of the chairman .  ( b ) powers of ranking minority member -- all staff provided to the minority party members of the select committee shall be appointed , and may be removed , by the ranking minority member of the committee , and shall work under the general supervision and direction of such member .  ( c ) compensation -- the chairman shall fix the compensation of all staff of the select committee , after consultation with the ranking minority member regarding any minority party staff , within the budget approved for such purposes for the select committee .  ( d ) reimbursement of expenses -- the select committee may reimburse the members of its staff for travel , subsistence , and other necessary expenses incurred by them in the performance of the their functions for the select committee .  ( e ) payment of expenses -- there shall be paid out of the applicable accounts of the house such sums as may be necessary for the expenses of the select committee .  such payments shall be made on vouchers signed by the chairman of the select committee and approved in the manner directed by the committee on house administration .  amounts made available under this subsection shall be expended in accordance with regulations prescribed by the committee on house administration .  sec .  5. the select committee shall from time to time report to the house the results of its study and investigation , with its recommendations .  any report made by the select committee when the house is not in session shall be filed with the clerk of the house .  any report made by the select committee shall be referred to the committee or committees that have jurisdiction over the subject matter of the report .  sec .  6. none of the unobligated or unexpended funds available for public affairs activities within the office of the secretary of defense under the heading `` operation and maintenance , defense-wide '' may be obligated or expanded until the requirements to transmit reports under section 9010 and 9012 of p.l .  108-287 are met .  mr. speaker , i thank my friend for yielding to me .  mr. speaker , the house will convene on tuesday at 2 p.m .  for legislative business .  we will consider several measures under suspension of the rules , and a final list of those bills will be sent to members ' offices by the end of the week .  any votes called on these measures will be rolled until 6 : 30 p.m .  on wednesday and thursday , the house will convene at 10 a.m .  for legislative business .  we may consider additional legislation under suspension of the rules , as well as h.r. 748 , the child interstate abortion notification act .  mr. speaker , i appreciate the gentleman yielding .  i believe the committee on the budget chairman , the gentleman from iowa ( mr. nussle )  , has had some informal discussions with his senate counterpart .  i have spoken to the majority leader of the senate .  they are hoping to call a conference committee meeting sometime next week , which means we will have to go to conference sometime next week .  as the gentleman may or may not know , the senate is taking a work period the following week , so they are trying as hard as they can to get this conference formed , a meeting , and work done so that we can have a conference report on the floor of the house and the senate by the end of next week .  mr. speaker , i thank the gentleman for yielding .  all i can tell the gentleman is , i know there is a lot of discussion about that over in the senate .  i do not know what their resolution is , even if there is a resolution on the senate side .  the house , as the gentleman knows , passed the budget that has substantial mandatory savings in it .  the house is very interested in holding the line on their mandatory savings , and the senate is trying to work through this process .  so it is really up to the senate as to what they are going to bring to the conference .  i appreciate the gentleman yielding .  i am sure that the discussions will fly fast and furious over next week in trying to get this conference report done .  mr. speaker , i thank the gentleman from wisconsin ( mr. sensenbrenner )  for the time .  mr. speaker , my comments prepared for now had essentially to do with the point that has been made already here many times .  carving out exceptions to the criminal prohibitions of h.r. 748 for adult siblings , for cousins and uncles would not protect young girls who are made victims of incest by those very adult siblings , cousins or uncles ; and it would be a terrible idea to add that to a bill whose primary purpose is to protect the rights of parents and their children .  but i had a chance just to kind of step back here for a moment , mr. speaker , and ask myself why the intensity of this debate .  i would have to step back and say that respectfully i would submit that maybe it is about the foundational issue here of abortion because if we were not talking about the surgery of abortion , there would be no debate here .  no one would say it is not all right to take a young girl across the state line for an appendectomy .  that would be an outrageous discussion .  it really is about this whole notion of abortion , and i do not understand the intensity completely , but i believe it has something to do with the conscience in all of us collectively that we are beginning to realize that somehow , as americans , we are bigger than abortion on demand ; that 40 million dead children is enough ; and that somehow we need to start asking the real question .  the real questions is , does abortion take the life of a child ?  if it does not , it is a nonissue .  if it does , then we are in the midst of the greatest human holocaust in the history of humanity .  i think somehow we collectively in our hearts understand that , and therefore , it creates all this acrimony on the finer points ; but the real abuse of power is that this body has the power to protect these little babies , and instead , we are debating the finer points in a committee report , and i am ashamed of that .  i pray that somehow we can get to the point where we can come together and not have to look back .  the fugitive slave act was a perfect example .  we looked back and said how did we let that happen .  that was an acrimonious debate , too .  there was a little thing called the civil war over it .  we do not need to proceed down that line .  somehow may compassion and the simple truth prevail here .  mr. speaker , today i rise in support of the rule for the emergency supplemental appropriations act and the underlying bill .  in addition to the needed funds to sustain military operations and reconstruction efforts in the middle east , this legislation contains two key provisions that i would like to highlight .  the first is language that ensures that funds in the bill will not be used to cancel the multiyear contract for c-130j procurement .  currently more than half the fleet of combat-ready c-130s is over 30 years old .  although their longevity is clearly a testament to the value of these critical aircraft , we should be very concerned that the c-130e and h models continue to age at alarming rates , putting our tactical airlift capability at risk in the near term .  in fact , several weeks ago , the air force announced that they are grounding much of the c-130e models because of severe fatigue in their wings , including a dozen that have been flying missions in and out of iraq and afghanistan .  mr. speaker , some of these planes were used in vietnam , and we are literally flying their wings off in the middle east .  the air force has long anticipated the aging of the older models , which only makes it more remarkable that the multiyear contract to replace these planes has been carved out of the 2006 budget .  mr. speaker , because of the growing problem that the air force faces in its tactical airlift program , i support the c-130j language , and i would like to express my sincere thanks to the appropriations chairman , the gentleman from california ( mr. lewis )  , and the conferees for retaining this language .  mr. speaker , i would also like to thank the conferees for protecting the real id provisions of h.r. 1268 .  as our rules committee chairman , the gentleman from california ( mr. dreier )  , just mentioned , this would establish and rapidly implement voluntarily regulations for state driver 's licenses and identification document security standards .  it would increase the burden of proof of claiming asylum .  it would synchronize terrorism-related grounds for inadmissibility and removal , and also facilitate the completion of the san diego border fence .  these provisions were recommended by the 9/11 commission , bipartisan , 10 members ; and they are important for securing our borders from illegal entry and possible terrorist activity .  our immigration laws are in need of reform , and i believe these provisions are a positive step in the right direction .  so i urge my colleagues to support the rule and the underlying bill .  mr. speaker , i thank the gentleman for yielding me this time .  mr. speaker , since september 11 of 2001 , we have been a nation at war .  we are engaged in a worldwide war on terror , a battle against the forces of terror , terrorists who hate our freedoms , who hate democracy .  but the fact of the matter is that the forces of freedom are winning .  we have liberated afghanistan and brought democracy to that nation for the first time in its history .  afghanistan has gone from a haven for terrorists to an ally in the war on terror .  we have liberated iraq .  in january , we saw the dramatic results when the people of iraq defied the terrorists and went to the polls to elect a new government .  we saw another major step with the formation of a new democratic government in iraq just the other day , and we have seen democratic movements break out in lebanon .  we have seen the libyan government renounce terror and weapons of mass destruction , and we have seen the leaders of al qaeda rounded up , including just yesterday , when the number three terrorist in that organization was captured in pakistan .  yes , war is difficult , but as we have found throughout our nation 's history , freedom is not free .  that is why we in congress must take this step today and approve the emergency wartime supplemental .  we have a responsibility to ensure that our men and women in uniform have the tools that they need to take the fight to the enemy , and we have an obligation to the families of those brave men and women who have made the ultimate sacrifice in the name of freedom and security to ensure that they are cared for .  we have an obligation to the newly democratic allies that we have to ensure that they will survive and not revert to repression and to terror .  we have a responsibility to keep the heat on the terrorists .  they can run and they can hide , but not forever .  for those who say that we are spending too much on this war , i would ask what price do you put on freedom and on security ?  i urge my colleagues to support the rule and this measure .  we owe our troops , our allies , and the american people no less .  mr. speaker , i thank the gentleman for yielding me this time .  i rise in strong support of the emergency war supplemental , and i commend in particular the new chairman of the committee on appropriations , the gentleman from california ( mr. lewis )  , and all the members of his committee , for masterful and disciplined work on this important legislation .  mr. speaker , last year i traveled to iraq and afghanistan to meet with troops and local leaders .  i witnessed firsthand the challenges and opportunities they face , and i can tell my colleagues with conviction that heroes and a future of freedom are being forged every day in iraq and afghanistan .  and while much work remains , i am more confident than ever in the justice and the ultimate success of our cause .  and , mr. speaker , i remain confident that we here in congress must do our duty , demonstrating the idealism and the perseverance of the american people , stand with the men and women serving in our armed forces , and speed the passage of this emergency supplemental bill without rancor or without delay .  the men and women who liberated iraq and afghanistan deserve our very best .  they deserve the resources they need to get the job done and come home safe .  it was just this morning i received an e-mail from dawn heister , the courageous widow of master sergeant mike heister , who fell in afghanistan along with four other hoosiers just the day before easter .  the courage in her e-mail inspired and moved my wife and i to such an extent that i rise today and dedicate my humble efforts and my vote today in favor of this emergency war supplemental in the memory of master sergeant mike heister and his brave wife .  but just like our troops , the american people deserve the very best protection , and the gentleman from california ( chairman lewis ) and the members of his committee , have succeeded in adding $ 635 million in budgetary resources for increased border security and enforcement , and this also is a critical advance in the war on terror .  the money , just like what we will invest in iraq and afghanistan , will help hire , train , and equip and support an additional complement of over 500 border patrol agents and relieve current facility overcrowding .  we also will provide resources for training .  it will provide the department of homeland security with additional resources to train and hire criminal investigators and immigration enforcement agents , recognizing that the 9/11 commission concluded that for the terrorists , travel documents are every bit as powerful and important as weapons .  this legislation will require all states to prove lawful presence in the united states if their driver 's licenses are to be accepted as a form of identification as a travel document to a federal official , including federal officials working at airports for the transportation security administration .  so i say , we are doing our part to provide for the common defense .  we are standing with our soldiers abroad as they fight on the front lines of the war on terror .  but this legislation also importantly and urgently speeds additional resources to the fight here at home , with its increased complement of support for border security and travel security .  i applaud , again , the gentleman from california ( chairman lewis ) and the house committee on appropriations for their disciplined and principled manner of approaching this legislation .  i urge my colleagues to affirm their leadership with a yea vote , and i urge the passage of the emergency war supplemental .  mr. speaker , in a country that espouses the importance of protecting the inherent rights of every person , abortion denies the rights of our most innocent and vulnerable members , our children .  as legislators , we have the great responsibility to strive to uphold the truths upon which our great country was founded , especially that every individual is entitled to life , liberty , and the pursuit of happiness .  abortion is not a sign that women are `` free to choose. '' it is a sign that women have been abandoned .  they have not had the support and care that they so desperately need .  rather , abortion is the only option offered .  abortion is one of the greatest scourges of our time .  it is a sign that we have not met the needs of women .  women deserve better than abortion .  it is a crime against humanity which not only takes the innocent life of a child but also profoundly alters the life of the mother .  women possess dignity and intrinsic beauty , and abortion tears them apart at the very core of their being .  i am proud to have had the opportunity to join with such dynamic pro-life women as patricia heaton , the costar of the tv show everybody loves raymond .  she is an outspoken advocate for women and for the protection of the rights of the unborn .  this past week , i met with patricia while she was in washington meeting with members of congress and staff members discussing the crucial need that we have as a society to strive to address the real challenges facing pregnant women and promoting women-centered solutions to significantly reduce abortion and protect women 's health .  i am pleased to be associated with organizations that work to increase public awareness of the devastation that abortion brings to women , men and their families .  these organizations ensure that the emotional and physical pain of abortion will no longer be shrouded in secrecy and silence but rather exposed and healed .  this past year , the pro-life movement has enjoyed many major victories in congress .  we have seen the passage of legislation protecting the sanctity of life and addressing the critical needs of women .  the partial birth abortion ban was signed into law by president bush .  the unborn victims of violence act also passed the house .  i have worked together with my colleagues here in congress and with president bush to defend the intrinsic rights of all citizens , especially the most defenseless .  i am pleased to note that today the house committee on the judiciary held a markup of my bill , h.r. 748 , the child interstate abortion notification act , ciana .  it was referred favorably as amended out of committee by a 20 to 13 margin and should be brought to the floor for a vote soon .  this critical legislation makes it a federal offense to knowingly transport a minor across a state line with the intent that she obtain an abortion in circumvention of a state 's parental consent or parental notification law .  ciana also requires that a parent or , if necessary , a legal guardian be notified pursuant to a default federal parental notification rule when a minor crosses state lines to obtain an abortion , unless one of several carefully drawn exceptions is met .  a minor who is forbidden to drink alcohol , to stay past a certain hour or to get her ears pierced without parental consent is certainly not prepared to make a life-altering , hazardous and potentially fatal decision such as obtaining an abortion without the consultation or the consent of at least one parent .  my legislation will close a loophole that allows adults not only to help minors break state laws by obtaining an abortion without parental consent but is also , unfortunately , contributing to ending the life of an innocent child .  we will close that loophole .  i am hopeful that in this 109th session of congress we will be successful in securing the rights of parents once and for all , and i encourage my colleagues to vote in favor of this bill .  we have a great responsibility as a nation to maintain a true reverence for vulnerable human life and to continue to build a culture of life .  i will continue to work to ensure that the precious gift of life and the dignity of womanhood are promoted and protected at every level .  mr. speaker , i thank the gentleman for yielding me time .  the 9/11 commission was constituted in order to tell the american public what we could do to avoid or stave off another attack like the one that occurred on 9/11 .  i rise in support of this rule taking up the conference report because i think the components that we have included , recommended by the 9/11 commission , are vital for the purpose of national security for the united states .  let us look at the consequences of the 19 hijackers who , by violating procedures with respect to identification , were able to shop from state to state , from california to virginia to florida , and obtain between them over 60 different types of ids .  i will remind the body that in terms of the aliases used just by those 19 individuals , they used 364 aliases between them .  so as a consequence , it was virtually impossible for authorities to follow or detect as they changed their identities , as they used these documents in order to rent cars , as they used these documents in order to take flight training lessons , to learn how to fly here in the united states , as they used these fraudulent documents even to board airplanes and crash them into the twin towers and into the pentagon .  we have to ask ourselves is there something we , as an institution , could do to make certain that this did not occur again ?  the 9/11 commission has laid out a strategy for a secure identification system , and basically what we are talking about is simply minimum standards so that all states know the rudimentary requirements to make certain that people are who they say they are .  because the 9/11 hijackers abused the process and went from state to state , we know for a fact that we need minimum standards .  we know that it only makes sense that when mohamed atta was given a visa that was valid for only 6 months but could use it to obtain a driver 's license that was valid for 6 years , that , in fact , we were not tailoring our laws to fit our national security concerns .  there are other provisions as well , the reform of amnesty , the completion of the border fence , the expedited approval .  but as we look at the border security issue with respect to completion of the border fence , i talked to a border agent who had stopped an individual originally from kyrgyzstan who had trained in afghanistan , who had trained there in jihad , at the fence .  what this particular border guard told me was that there is a 3-mile gap in that triple barrier fence , and it was within that area of that gap that this individual tried to come into the u.s. and was apprehended and returned .  i think we need to give our border security personnel the assets that they have requested .  we need to help them do their job , and the completion of this triple barrier fence will achieve that objective because it is in the interest of national security .  i think it is proper we bring it up and include it in this bill .  mr. speaker , i reserve the balance of my time .  that is not my intent , mr. speaker .  mr. speaker , his side has the right to close as the proponents of the resolution .  mr. speaker , i would refer the gentleman to the statement made by the gentleman from ohio ( mr. chabot )  that is on the bottom of page 84 which talks about the potential of sexual predators .  mr. speaker , i reserve the balance of my time .  mr. speaker , we have five speakers .  mr. speaker , how much time is left on each side ?  mr. speaker , i reserve the balance of my time .  mr. speaker , i reserve the balance of my time .  mr. speaker , i reserve the balance of my time .  mr. speaker , this supplemental bill is a good bill .  i was privileged to go with my good friend , the gentleman from oklahoma ( mr. cole )  , to iraq .  we visited with the troops .  and some of the troops indicated that they got the satellite transmissions , some of the news .  they had heard some of our friends on the other side of the aisle saying they were wasting their lives .  they had heard some of newscasters saying that they were wasting lives .  but they said after the election they knew why they were there : they were setting a historical precedent in the cradle of civilization .  they were doing good and they knew it , and they know it today .  and we owe it to our troops to make sure that they have everything they need to make iraq , or give them the opportunity to create that democracy .  in talking to sunnis , the sunnis were upset with their leadership that told them not to vote .  they said , please , if you would just stand behind the iraqi police and armed services to make sure we get one more chance to vote .  one former general under saddam hussein said , if you will do that , i believe you will see 95 percent of the violence in iraq go away .  folks , this is historic , what we have undertaken ; and it does not just help iraq .  it deals with terrorism around the world .  it sends that message .  it has already sent shivers throughout the middle east , and it has helped us right here in america .  that is why we are doing it .  so we need to support that .  also , i want to address one other thing that has been brought up .  i have heard people on television , i have heard colleagues across the aisle , some folks i have great respect for , indicating that there is nothing in the real id bill that would have changed anything on 9/11 .  and i have respect for some of these people that i have heard say that , and i wish that they would read the bill instead of just relying on talking points or something from the leadership .  because , if you look , under evidence of lawful status , which is required in order to have a driver 's license that will be an acceptable form of identification to get on an airplane , it says , you can not use a driver 's license if it does not come from a state that makes sure you are in lawful status .  and if you are in a temporary status , it must be a temporary driver 's license that says on there the same date your permit to be in this country expires .  if we had had that in place on 9/11 , then every one of the hijackers would have tried to get onboard an airplane with an invalid , out-of-date driver 's license , and should have been stopped .  folks , this goes in a number of directions , all coming together to help with the fight against terrorism .  it would have helped on 9/11 ; it will help prevent 9/11s in the future .  i would encourage everyone to support it .  mr. speaker , i thank the gentleman for yielding to me .  mr. speaker , the house will convene on tuesday at 2 p.m .  for legislative business .  we will consider several measures under the suspension of the rules .  a final list of those bills will be sent to the members ' offices by the end of the week .  any votes called on measures will be rolled until 6 : 30 on tuesday .  on wednesday and the balance of the week , the house will convene at 10 a.m .  for legislative business , and we may consider additional legislation under suspension of the rules , as well as two bills under a rule , h.r. 1279 , gang deterrence and community protection act of 2005 ; and h.r. 1544 , faster and smarter funding for first responders act of 2005 .  mr. speaker , i would like to defer on the rules to the committee on rules chairman .  he will have some announcements regarding rules on those bills when he speaks .  mr. speaker , at this moment we are scheduled to work on friday .  if we determine that is not necessary , we will announce that as soon in the week as possible .  but at this point we are scheduled to work next friday .  mr. speaker , the committee on appropriations is moving their work along at an extraordinary pace , particularly based on the fact that they also were able to get this supplemental done today in a way that has not slowed down the progress we are seeing this year .  we are hopeful to get many , if not all , of these bills done by the early part of july and expect to have some of these bills on the floor the week of may 16 .  the two bills that i think are the furthest along are interior and homeland security , and it is likely that they would be first .  as has been our process for a while , we would intend to move to the appropriations bills whenever they are available .  in many ways the rest of the calendar will respond to the work coming out of the committee on appropriations and ready for the floor .  mr. chairman , i rise today to express my strong support for h.r. 1279 , the gang deterrence and community protection act of 2005 .  i have spoken with sheriffs and police chiefs back in my district and they tell me : we need to be ready ; we need to learn how to confront these gangs .  this legislation will do just that , it will provide local , state , and federal law enforcement and legal authorities with personnel , equipment , and training needed to combat violent criminal gangs .  in virginia , no urban area has gone unscarred by criminal gangs .  across virginia , officials estimate that as many as 80 gangs totaling 30 , 000 members or more roam our city streets .  the commonwealth 's law enforcement and prosecutors will now have greater resources to combat violent criminal gang activity .  we must act now , if we are to protect virginia 's families and communities .  i urge passage of this legislation .  madam chairman , i rise in strong support of h.r. 1279 , the gang deterrence and community protection act of 2005 .  i want to thank the distinguished gentleman from virginia ( mr. forbes )  for his hard work on this very critical issue .  i also want to thank the chairman of the committee on the judiciary , the gentleman from wisconsin ( mr. sensenbrenner )  for his leadership in this area as well .  gang violence is taking over too many of our communities .  what was once thought to be an urban problem has now moved into many suburban and even rural areas , leaving virtually every community and every child in them vulnerable .  sadly , too many children are turning their backs on beneficial extra-curricular activities and turning to the world of guns and drugs and violent activity in order to gain entry into or move up or just maintain status in a gang .  in order to gain entry into these things , this legislation is absolutely critical .  and for those who have avoided being seduced by gang life , they are too often held hostage in their homes for fear of being the next victim or the unfortunate one who may witness a gang act and who may later be called upon to testify , and they are often times in fear of their life when that happens .  in my district , the first district of ohio which includes the city of cincinnati , the 22 homicides that have occurred as of march put the city on pace to exceed the record number , 75 homicides that occurred back in 2003 .  many of our city officials and law enforcement point toward gang activity centered on drug trafficking as the source of this increase .  we can not allow gangs to control our communities .  we must give law enforcement the tools to fight back .  h.r. 1279 would help to accomplish this in two ways : it would establish new stronger gang and violent criminal penalties as well as strengthen existing ones to deter the acts of violence commonly associated with these gangs .  most importantly , h.r. 1279 gives our communities the resources to attack the gang problem from all levels .  h.r. 1279 ensures that local state and national law enforcement work together to stop gangs and to make our communities finally safe as they ought to be .  our communities can not fight gangs alone .  i would strongly urge my colleagues to support this important piece of legislation to ensure that we have a coordinated effort in all levels of government .  i want to again thank the gentleman from virginia ( mr. forbes )  for his leadership in this area .  mr. speaker , it is with a great deal of pride that i rise today to support both this rule and the underlying bill and to point out to my good friend on the other side that this is a bipartisan bill , and it is a bill that is designed to reach a major problem in our country today , which is the rise of violent gang crime .  when i listen to some of our opponents talk about this bill , they always use the term `` antisocial behavior , '' and i can tell you from studying gangs for over 10 years , it is not antisocial behavior that we are talking about .  let me , mr. speaker , tell you what we are talking about .  we are talking about machete attacks , witness intimidation , extortion , cold-blooded assassination , rapes , cutting off people 's fingers , cutting off their arms , cutting off their heads .  but what concerns me the most , mr. speaker , is the metamorphosis i have seen in violent gang activity across our country .  first of all , there has been a huge change in numbers .  my good friend from georgia mentioned earlier that , as we sit here and debate this bill , there is probably between 750 , 000 to 850 , 000 gang members in the united states .  to put that in perspective , if they were an army from a foreign country , it would be the sixth largest army in the world .  and that is not waiting to get in our borders , but already here .  their violence has increased enormously .  in some of these gangs , in order to be able to get in , if you are a woman , you have to be raped in , for 30 minutes by six different individuals .  if you are a male , you have to be either beaten in or , to some of the gangs , you have to murder somebody to get into the gang .  and they have become national and international in scope .  no longer are we talking about the old jets and sharks from west side story ; we are talking about gangs that are across the country that have boards of directors outside the prisons , boards of directors inside the prisons , and they are ordering violent activity .  they may be in los angeles , but they are ordering the violence in another part of the country .  their recruitment is now reaching as low as the elementary schools , and their motivation to join is no longer just a fear or a want to belong to something .  today , many people feel if they do not join the gang , they will be beaten or intimidated by the gang .  so it is the presence of the gang and the fear and intimidation of the gang that is drawing them there .  also , one of the things that concerns us most is that many of these gangs have become the most proficient smugglers of individuals and weapons in the country , and it is a small linkage between the gang activity that we are seeing and their connection with organized terrorist activity .  what this bill says is that , if you join a violent criminal gang and you commit a gang crime , you will go to jail for a long time , or you will help us bring down that network .  what this bill says is that , if you are a gang leader , you can no longer order violence in one part of the country by a 16- or 17-year old and expect to go scot-free , because the federal , state and local government is coming after you .  it also says that we are going to use the combined strength of the federal , state and local government to protect citizens in our own borders from the domestic terror they face from gangs .  mr. speaker , i would suggest that if this bill fails , we might as well put a sign on a billboard that says `` coming to a neighborhood near you soon , '' because that is the growth we are seeing in violent gangs .  my good friend just raised in his opposition to the bill the support of the california gang investigators association .  they support this bill .  the fraternal order of police supports this bill .  the national latino peace officers association supports this bill .  the national association of police organizations supports this bill .  the major chiefs of law enforcement departments across the country support this bill .  the national troopers coalition supports this bill .  mr. speaker , i hope we will support this bill and make it into law and protect our citizens .  mr. speaker , i think , if one is around here long enough , they get to the point where they do not believe they could be shocked by anything .  but when i heard the other side a while ago say that they believe that giving arts and crafts to violent gang members will do more to deter crime than empowering law enforcement agents and locking up gang members in jail , that , i have to admit , still shocks me .  mr. speaker , i include for the record a letter from the national latino peace officers association , which supports all the provisions of this bill and asks that this bill be passed ; from the fraternal order of police that supports this bill and asks that it be passed ; from the national association of police organizations , which supports this bill and asks that it be passed ; from the national sheriffs ' association , which supports the provisions of this bill and asks that it be passed ; from the law enforcement alliance of america , which supports the provisions of this bill and asks that it be passed ; from the national troopers coalition ; from the california gang investigators association ; from the los angeles deputy sheriffs office ; and from the major county sheriffs ' association .  and , mr. speaker , we will have a lot more as the day goes on .  major county sheriff 's association , alexandria , virginia , april 20 , 2005 .  dear chairman sensenbrenner : on behalf of the major county sheriffs ' association , i am writing to express our support for h.r. 1279 , the `` gang deterrence and community protection act of 2005. '' this much needed legislation takes a necessary step toward addressing the growing epidemic of gang violence that is affecting our entire nation and has even stretched into some of our most rural communities .  the department of justice estimates there are currently over 25 , 000 gangs and over 750 , 000 gang members who are active in more than 3 , 000 jurisdictions across the united states .  gang activity has been directly linked to the narcotics trade , human trafficking , identification documentation falsification and the use of firearms to commit deadly shootings .  h.r. 1279 would address the growing problem of gang violence by creating a rational strategy to identify , apprehend and prosecute gangs across the nation .  specifically , the bill would provide for the designation of high intensity gang areas ( higas ) to identify , target and eliminate violent gangs in areas where gang activity is particularly prevalent .  the bill would also create a statute to prosecute criminal gangs similar to the racketeer influenced and corrupt organizations statute ( rico ) that has proven so effective against organized crime , and would provide more than $ 385 million over the next five years in grants to support federal , state , and local law enforcement efforts against violent gangs , and to coordinate law enforcement agencies ' efforts to share intelligence and jointly prosecute violent gangs .  finally , under h.r. 1279 , several categories of gang-related offense would be subject to mandatory minimum sentences of at least 30 years in prison for cases of kidnapping , aggravated sexual assault or maiming .  the `` gang deterrence and community protection act of 2005 '' is a comprehensive piece of legislation that addresses both the enforcement and prosecution aspects of the battle against gang violence .  thank you for your time and attention , as well as your continued support of law enforcement .  sincerely , sheriff michael j. bouchard , sheriff james a. karnes , los angeles deputy sheriffs , inc. , los angeles , california , april 20 , 2005 .  dear chairman sensenbrenner : on behalf of the members of the association for los angeles deputy sheriffs ( alads ) , which represents over 7 , 000 deputy sheriffs and district attorney investigators in los angeles county .  i am writing in support of h.r. 1279 , the gang deterrence and community protection act of 2005 , and h.r. 1528 , defending america 's most vulnerable : safe access to drug treatment and child protection act of 2005 .  h.r. 1279 , the gang deterrence and community protection act of 2005 not only designates high intensity gang areas and authorizes funds to combat gang activity , it creates a new gang prosecution statute ; increases penalties for violent gang crimes ; and limits a criminal street gang to a group or association of three or more individuals that commit two or more gang crimes .  h.r. 1528 , defending america 's most vulnerable : safe access to drug treatment and child protection act of 2005 , provides for sound statutory reforms of ineffective anti-drug laws designed to protect children .  alads strongly supports both h.r. 1279 , and h.r. 1528 .  sincerely , roy l. burns , investigators association , huntington beach , ca , april 25 , 2005 .  dear representative sensenbrenner : mr. chairman , as president of the california gang investigators association ( cgia ) i am writing to offer the support of the association for h.r. 1279 , the gang deterrence and community protection act of 2005 and h.r. 1528 , defending america 's most vulnerable : safe access to drug treatment and child protection act of 2005 .  the association supports the legislative effort to curb gang violence and the associated criminal drug networks that goes hand-in-hand with street gang activity .  we have supported the efforts of senators hatch and feinstein in their anti-gang efforts and stand ready to be of any assistance we can be in your committee 's efforts to obtain the same goals .  street gangs continue to spread their unique brand of urban terrorism across our nation .  not only have they become prevalent in most urban inner cities , but have become a scourge in our rural communities as well , presenting a threat to this nation 's bread basket .  as i travel around this country lecturing to these communities it seems their primary concern for their personal safety is not from some foreign terrorist but their greatest fear is of the local street gangs .  hundreds upon hundreds of americans are slain every year by street gangs , and thousands more injured .  this legislation provides new law which will aid in this strugg1e , not only attacking the gangs but with its companion bill , begins to focus on their drug business as well .  if our association can be of any further assistance to you please feel free to contact me .  sincerely yours , wesley d. mcbride , national troopers coalition , green bay , wi .  dear chairman sensenbrenner : as chairman of the national troopers coalition , ( ntc ) i am writing to express our support for h.r. 1279 , gang deterrence and community protection act of 2005 .  the ntc represents over 40 , 000 state troopers and highway patrolmen throughout the united states .  we urge you to continue your work on fighting gang violence in america ; we support all of the provisions contained in h.r. 1279 .  our members continue to deal with increased gang crimes and violence , as we have for years .  the provisions of h.r. 1279 , that in part deal with increased penalties , clarification of definitions , and increased resources and appropriations will greatly aid us and our law enforcement counterparts with gang investigations , deterrence and prevention .  accordingly , on behalf of our members , we fully support and urge passage of h.r. 1279 .  sincerely , casey l. perry , alliance of america , falls church , va. , april 19 , 2005 .  dear chairman sensenbrenner : on behalf of the more than 75 , 000 members and supporters of the law enforcement alliance of america ( leaa ) , i am writing to express our strong support for the gang deterrence and community protection act of 2005 ( h.r. 1279 ) .  this legislation provides law enforcement and prosecutors with much needed tools to combat the growing organized threat of violence from criminal street gangs .  today 's gang violence problem is not one of neighborhoods , but increasingly an interstate and even international operation involving highly structured and extremely violent criminal enterprises .  h.r. 1279 recognizes this growing menace and provides a much needed response .  by providing state and local law enforcement with the additional resources to pursue such criminals and giving prosecutors additional tools to punish such criminals .  h.r. 1279 offers a significant opportunity to make an impact in the fight against violent crime .  i respectfully ask for your support for this much needed federal initiative .  if you have any questions about leaa 's position on h.r. 1279 or any other matter , feel free to have your staff contact our legislative director , kevin watson at ( 703 ) 847-2677 .  sincerely , james j. fotis , national sheriffs ' association , alexandria , virginia , april 19 , 2005 .  dear chairman sensenbrenner : i am writing on behalf of the national sheriffs ' association and the 3 , 087 sheriffs across the country to express our full support for h.r. 1279 , the `` gang deterrence and community protection act of 2005. '' this much needed legislation takes a necessary step toward addressing the growing epidemic of gang violence that is affecting our entire nation and has even stretched into some of our most rural communities .  the department of justice estimates there are currently over 25 , 000 gangs and over 750 , 000 gang members who are active in more than 3 , 000 jurisdictions across the united states .  gang activity has been directly linked to the narcotlcs trade , human trafficking , identification documentation falsification and the use of firearms to commit deadly shootings .  h.r. 1279 would effectively address the growing problem of gang violence by creating a rational strategy to identify , apprehend , and prosecute gangs across the nation .  specifically , the bill would provide for the designation of high intensity gang areas ( higas ) to identify , target and eliminate violent gangs in areas where gang activity is particularly prevalent .  the bill would also create a statute to prosecute criminal gangs similar to the racketeer influenced and corrupt organizations statute ( rico ) that has proven so effective against organized crime , and would provide more than $ 385 million over the next five years in grants to support federal , state , and local law enforcement efforts against violent gangs , and to coordinate law enforcement agencies ' efforts to share intelligence and jointly prosecute violent gangs .  finally , under h.r. 1279 , several categories of gang-related offense would be subject to mandatory minimum sentences of at least 30 years in prison for cases of kidnapping , aggravated sexual assault or maiming .  the `` gang deterrence and community protection act of 2005 '' is a comprehensive piece of legislation that addresses both the enforcement and prosecution aspects of the battle against gang violence .  the national sheriffs ' association and its member sheriffs fully endorse h.r. 1279 and thank you for your continued support of law enforcement .  sincerely , thomas n. faust , washington .  d.c. , april 15 , 2005 .  dear chairman sensenbrenner : on behalf of the national association of police organizations ( napo ) , representing 236 , 000 rank-and-file police officers from across the united states , i would like to thank you for introducing the `` gang deterrence and community protection act of 2005 , '' and advise you of our support for the legislation .  if enacted , this legislation will greatly assist state and local law enforcement in their efforts against gang expansion and violence .  recent studies on gangs have estimated that over 25 , 000 different gangs , comprising over 750 , 000 members are active across the united states .  100 percent of all cities larger than 250 , 000 have reported gang activity .  compounding this problem , gangs have been directly linked to narcotics trade , human trafficking , identification document falsification , violent maiming , assault and murder , and the use of firearms to commit deadly shootings .  the `` gang deterrence and community protection act '' works to reduce gang violence by designating high intensity gang areas ( higas ) and authorizing $ 20 million per year over five years to combat gang activity .  it also creates a new gang prosecution statute focusing on street gangs and increases the penalties for violent gang crimes , strengthening prosecutors ' ability to combat gang activities .  napo looks forward to fighting for this legislation 's passage and i thank you for your continued support of law enforcement .  if you have any questions , please feel free to contact me , or napo 's legislative assistant , andrea mournighan , at ( 202 ) 842-4420 .  sincerely william j. johnson , washington , dc , april 4 , 2005 .  dear representative forbes : , i am writing on behalf of the members of the fraternal order of police to advise you of our strong support for h.r. 1279 , the `` gang deterrence and community protection act of 2005. '' this legislation will attack the growing problem of criminal gang activity by providing increased federal funding , almost $ 390 million , to support federal , state and local law enforcement efforts to combat gang activity .  the bill aims to facilitate greater cooperation between law enforcement officers and prosecutors at every level of government by providing for the designation of certain locations as `` high intensity interstate gang activity areas. '' this strategy , modeled after the high intensity drug trafficking area ( hidta ) program , will enable law enforcement in these designated areas to build successful multijurisdictional efforts targeting criminal street gangs using federal funds .  law enforcement agencies in these designated areas will be able to call on federal resources to hire additional state and local prosecutors and purchase technology to increase their abliity to identify and prosecute violent offenders .  the legislation also creates new criminal gang prosecution offenses and enhances existing gang and violent crime penalties to deter and punish illegal gang activity .  the bill would also allow 16-year olds to be charged as adults in federal court for crimes of violence .  we believe that our nation 's law enforcement officers can be more effective at fighting the menace of criminal gangs if they have the necessary resources that this legislation provides .  i want to commend you for your leadership on this issue .  if i can be of any further help on this or any other issue , please do not hesitate to contact me or executive director jim pasco through my washington office .  sincerely , chuck canterbury , april 18 , 2005 dear representative sensenbrenner : as the house judiciary committee continues its work on gang violence in america , on behalf of the national latino peace officers association ( nlpoa ) , we support all of the provisions contained in h.r. 1279 and urge the committee to adopt all of the provisions to strengthen federal law enforcement 's capabilities on combating the growing gang violence in america : 18 u.s.c .  521 criminal street gang prosecutions , increasing the penalty for such criminal acts on behalf of a criminal gang ; defining gang crime for federal prosecution ; increased penalties for racketeering crimes on behalf of the criminal gangs ; modification of the definition of a crime of violence ; and increasing resources and appropriations in the newly defined high intensity interstate gang activity areas .  nlpoa members have dealt with gang crimes and gang violence for the last 32 years and are experts in this arena ; with respect to gang investigations , deterrence , and prevention .  the nlpoa recognizes that many gangs are more sophisticated and have more resources than local police departments .  designating federal resources through increase penalties and federal task forces will help keep america safe !  sincerely , felipe a. ortiz , madam chairman , i want to thank the gentleman from wisconsin ( chairman sensenbrenner ) for his leadership in this area and for bringing this bill to the floor .  i rise today in support of this bipartisan bill , h.r. 1279 , the gang deterrence and community protection act of 2005 .  and in the limited time that i have , i just want to raise three points .  the first point is that throughout the debate today , you will hear two different worlds described about gangs .  one world they will describe in gangs will be talking about antisocial behavior and fist fights .  if you think that is what we are concerned about with gangs , then we should not be here today at all talking about this bill .  but the true world , when you talk about gangs , are that you are having a rise in gangs in the united states where today , as we debate this bill , there are between 750 , 000 and 850 , 000 gang members within our borders .  if it was a foreign army , it would be the sixth largest army in the world .  and these are the acts in the real gang world : machete attacks , witness intimidation , extortion , murder of federal agents , rape , cutting off arms , fingers and individuals ' heads .  so the second point is , why can we not just deal with these acts with current state laws ?  well , this chart shows just one member of one gang and all of the activities that he had in traveling around the united states .  today , these gangs have become national and international in scope ; and if we want to truly deal with gangs , there is only one way to do it : you have got to bring down the gang networks and the gang leaders .  and this bill will do that .  now , our friends who are opposed to this bill say let us just deal with it crime by crime and individual by individual .  and that works if it is just an individual committing a crime , because once you get that person and put them in jail , the crime stops .  but when you are talking about gangs , when you deal with just one crime from a lower-tier person in that gang and you get that person and prosecute him , 20 different acts were never caught .  and when you get that one person from a gang and it is an organized effort , 20 more spring up in their place .  we need a system to bring together teams of federal , state , and local law enforcement so that we can go after that network and bring them down .  and i would just ask you to look at a single situation where local or state law enforcement has been able to reach up to these national and international gangs and bring down the gang network .  the other thing that i want to say that you will see today , and we heard it earlier , and i was absolutely shocked when i heard it , but the opponents of this bill literally said on the floor earlier this morning that giving arts and crafts to criminal gang members who committed violent crimes would do more than the provisions of this bill , which is to lock them up and to empower law enforcement to go after them .  and i want to just say , because you hear a lot of talk about people who met with a group of students here , or maybe a group of people over here , this is a list that the chairman read out earlier of virtually every major law enforcement organization in the united states who supports the provisions of this bill and realizes if we do not pass this bill and bring down the gang networks , you might as well put a big billboard out that says , `` coming soon to a neighborhood near you , '' because that is what is going to happen with the rapid rise of these gangs .  and i hope that this house will stand up today , will vote to give law enforcement the tools they need , and that we will go after these networks and bring them down .  mr. speaker , by direction of the committee on rules , i call up house resolution 268 and ask for its immediate consideration .  mr. speaker , i yield myself such time as i may consume to clarify and to remind my colleagues on the other side , who are suggesting we should be adding more social programs to this legislation , that this is not a social programs bill .  it is a law enforcement bill .  if they would like to work with the chairman of the committee on the judiciary to craft a bill that would authorize arts and craft classes for gang members , certainly they can do that .  i would also like to mention that we currently have spent over the past 4 years , 2001 to 2004 , over $ 2.1 billion on juvenile social programs aimed at prevention .  and even with $ 2.1 billion , we have continued to see this dramatic rise in gang violence .  mr. speaker , i yield myself such time as i may consume .  the gentleman from virginia who just spoke is a brilliant lawyer , and i know he is not missing any points ; but i want to say it is very important that the rest of our colleagues understand , we know that all of these crimes mentioned here today are illegal .  but the point is , this bill addresses the dismantling of the systems that support gangs , and i think it is very important that we keep that in mind .  mr. speaker , i reserve the balance of my time .  madam chairman , i rise this afternoon to support h.r. 1279 , the gang deterrence and community protection act .  i was pleased to work with the committee on the judiciary , and especially the gentleman from virginia ( mr. forbes )  , my good friend , to support the legislation on the floor today .  according to the justice department , there are currently over 25 , 000 gangs and over 750 , 000 gang members who are active across the united states .  gang activity has been directly linked to the proliferation of illegal drugs , human trafficking , and many other violent crimes .  the gang deterrence and community protection act will authorize funds for joint federal , state , and local gang investigation prosecution ; create a statute to prosecute criminal gang enterprises similar to the existing rico statute used to prosecute federal racketeering ; create mandatory minimum sentencing for gang and violent crimes ; and fund gang investigation technology to allow law enforcement to act more efficiently .  madam chairman , many headlines of late have reflected on growing gang problems in heavily populated areas .  unfortunately , gang violence is also on the rise in rural areas , including my congressional district .  the disturbing news that it is spreading through the shenandoah valley of virginia is indeed disturbing .  in fact , the fbi has recognized the existence of at least six separate gangs in the valley , some of which are responsible for at least two gang-related murders in the past 2 years .  madam chairman , acknowledging the reality that gangs are no longer limited solely to urban areas , i am pleased to join my colleagues to support this gangbusters legislation .  this legislation will allow us to meet the increase in gang activity with resources sufficient to combat this scourge in our communities , and i urge my colleagues to support this important legislation .  mr. chairman , this is something that has been discussed since the committee acted and passed the legislation out , but we felt very strongly that this would be a good addition to the legislation because of the fact that so many of these gang members are illegal aliens who have re-entered the country after already having been deported and having committed crimes earlier .  something needs to be done more than simple deportation when they come right back in and commit more crimes .  mr. chairman , i yield myself 30 seconds .  mr. chairman , the fact of the matter is that this has a great deterrent effect .  when the word gets out that they come back into this country and they get arrested after they have been deported and they are going to do serious time in the slammer , they are not as likely to come back .  and with the efforts that are ongoing with the real id act , we are going to keep a lot of these people out of the country with that method , and we are going to find them when they come into the country and try to get driver 's licenses .  but when they do , they need to know that they are going to face serious time .  mr. chairman , i demand a recorded vote .  madam chairman , i thank the esteemed chairman for yielding time to me , and madam chairman , i ask for this opportunity to say a few words in support of the bill that is before us and in compliments to the work done by the gentleman from virginia who has announced to us that there is a number , the best estimate at 750 , 000 to 850 , 000 , gang members in the united states .  when we think about the magnitude of that size number , 750 , 000 to 850 , 000 , 75 to 100 percent , and a lot believe the number is very close to 100 percent , are illegal immigrants who have established a gang culture in the ethnic enclave that is a necessary result of illegal immigration .  this ethnic enclave has created and fostered some of the worst gains we have ever seen in this country , people that cut off hands and arms and heads , people that have a network across this nation that from a prison in california can order an execution on the streets of virginia or from a prison in virginia , order an execution in a prison in l.a .  or on the streets of l.a .  that is what this culture has fostered ; and that amount , that 850 , 000 , that is roughly out of the 10 million illegal immigrants , that is about 8 1/2 percent of the illegal population ends up in a gang .  one in 12 people that come across the border illegally and stay here end up in a gang .  by these numbers , it is an astonishing thing ; and if we have 1.1 million that come across the southern border , these are the ones that stay here , calculate the numbers that turn out into gangs , the price to this society in hands and arms and heads .  madam chairman , i thank my colleague for this privilege to speak before this house .  mr. chairman , the gentleman is very kind .  mr. chairman , i will tell you the ncic system works .  after 6 1/2 years , it is overdue time we tried to do something about the visas .  i will take just a minute to thank the chairman of the committee on the judiciary for a great bill .  i appreciate so much his support in this , as well as the support of the gentleman from virginia ( mr. goodlatte )  and the gentleman from virginia ( mr. wolf )  and all their good work .  we are finally , finally trying to do something about this terrible problem of illegal immigrants .  mr. chairman , i would just like to thank the gentlewoman .  i hope this will be , and i think it should have bipartisan support , and i am going to call for a vote , because i believe most of us will vote for this .  mr. chairman , if the gentlewoman will yield , i am interested in doing anything i know we can do to stop gang violence in this country .  it is time we brought it to an end , and of course , i am interested in anything about that that might head that off .  mr. chairman , i demand a recorded vote .  mr. chairman , the gang deterrence and community protection act , ( h.r. 1279 ) , is the latest example of congress disregarding its constitutional limitations in the name of `` getting tough on crime. '' gang crime is certainly a serious issue in many parts of the country .  however , unless criminal gangs are engaging in counterfeiting , treason , or piracy , the federal government has no jurisdiction over the criminal activities of gangs .  in fact , by creating new federal crimes related to gang activities , but unrelated to one of the federal crimes enumerated in the constitution , the new federal crimes and enhanced penalties in this bill usurp state and local authority .  h.r. 1279 broadly defines `` criminal street gangs '' and `` gang activity. '' this is a major expansion of federal criminal jurisdiction .  chief justice william h. rehnquist and former u.s. attorney general ed meese , two men who no one has ever accused of being `` soft on crime , '' have both warned that , although creating more federal crimes may make politicians feel good , it is neither constitutionally sound nor prudent .  rehnquist has stated that , `` [ t ] he trend to federalize crimes that traditionally have been handled in state courts ... ..  threatens to change entirely the nature of our federal system. '' meese stated that congress 's tendency in recent decades to make federal crimes out of offenses that have historically been state matters has dangerous implications both for the fair administration of justice and for the principle that states are something more than mere administrative districts of a nation governed mainly from washington .  those who want the american criminal justice system to actually deliver justice should oppose h.r. i279 because it imposes `` mandatory minimum '' sentences for certain gang-related crimes .  mandatory minimum sentences impose a `` one-size-fits-all '' formula in place of the discretion of a judge , or jury , to weigh all the circumstances surrounding an individual 's crime and decide on an appropriate punishment .  taking away judicial discretion over sentencing may represent a legislative usurpation of areas properly left to the judiciary .  i have long been critical of judicial usurpation of legislative functions , and have introduced legislation using congress 's constitutional powers to rein in the judiciary .  however , i recognize that congress must make sure it does not overstep its constitutional authority by imposing legislative solutions on matters best resolved by the judicial branch .  mandatory minimums almost guarantee unjust sentences .  reverend nicholas dimarzio , chairman of the domestic policy committee of the united states conference of catholic bishops , and reverend kerry snyder , president of catholic charities usa , summed it up well in a letter to congress opposing this bill : `` ... ..  rigid sentencing formulations could prevent judges from properly assessing an individual 's culpability during the crime of other factors that have bearing on recidivism , thus sometimes resulting in harsh and inappropriate sentences. '' i am also concerned that removing authority over the prevention and punishment of gang crimes from state and local jurisdictions will prevent states and localities from coming up with innovative ways to prevent gang crimes .  gangs flourish for a multitude of reasons , and no federal `` one-size-fits-all '' program can address all the causes of gang crimes .  states and localities should be left free to create the gang prevention and punishment programs that best meet their unique needs .  supporters of this bill make a good point that federal money is being wasted on ineffective `` prevention '' programs like the infamous `` midnight basketball '' program .  however , h.r. 1279 in no way reduces funding for ineffective prevention programs .  instead , it spends more taxpayer money on unconstitutional crime programs .  the sponsors of this bill could have attempted to stop wasting taxpayer funds on programs such as midnight basketball by defunding such prevention programs and using the funds to pay for the new programs created by h.r. 1279 .  finally , i must oppose this bill because it expands the federal death penalty .  while i recognize that nothing in the constitution forbids federal , state , or local governments from imposing a death penalty , i have come to the conclusion that a consistent pro-life position requires opposition to any legislation imposing a federal death penalty for unconstitutional federal crimes .  mr. speaker , i do not advocate federal action to stop individual states from imposing a death penalty , i simply oppose compounding the damage done by creating new federal crimes by making those crimes subject to a federal death penalty .  h.r. 1279 exceeds congress 's constitutional authority by creating new federal crimes , thus further burdening the already overwhelmed federal judiciary system and taking another step toward upending our constitutional system by turning the states into administrative districts of the federal government .  this bill also creates unwise mandatory minimum sentences , usurping the sentencing decisions of judges and juries .  finally , h.r. 1279 raises serious moral issues by expanding the use of the federal death penalty .  therefore , i must oppose h.r. 1279 and urge my colleagues to do same .  madam chairman , i yield myself such time as i may consume .  madam chairman , i rise in support of h.r. 1279 , the gang deterrence and community protection act of 2005 .  this bill is a forward-looking and comprehensive approach to a growing national threat : violent and vicious criminal gangs in our communities .  according to the last national youth gang survey , there are now between 750 , 000 and 850 , 000 gang members in our country .  every city in the country with a population of 250 , 000 or more has reported gang activity .  there are over 25 , 000 gangs in more than 3 , 000 jurisdictions in the united states .  criminal gangs are no longer just a local problem .  in recent years , gangs have become nationally-organized criminal syndicates .  they are disciplined criminal enterprises with leaders , managers and employees , with training and structured associations , many of which are now international in scope .  they are dedicated to enriching themselves through criminal activity and terrorizing our communities .  the law-abiding public and state and local law enforcement have sent us a strong message : act now and stop the scourge of violence in our communities .  this legislation has four broad and significant purposes .  first , the bill authorizes the creation of anti-gang task forces that will bring together federal , state and local law enforcement to conduct complex and significant gang prosecutions and provide a national infrastructure for the sharing of gang information nationwide .  second , the bill creates a new gang crime statute , akin to the rico statute , that addresses specific techniques and criminal strategies used by the gangs .  third , the bill increases penalties and clarifies several existing statutes for crimes typically committed by gangs .  fourth , the bill adopts a limited measure to permit federal prosecutors to charge 16- and 17-year-olds in federal court without going through a lengthy and outdated transfer procedure .  current law has hindered law enforcement efforts to incapacitate violent 16- and 17-year-old gang members in aggravated crimes of violence .  i would like to underscore one important aspect of this bill .  it adopts new mandatory minimum penalties that address the seriousness of violent crimes committed by gang members .  for kidnapping , maiming and aggravated sexual abuse , gang members will be subject to a 30-year mandatory minimum .  for assaults resulting in serious bodily injury ; that is , nearly killing or permanently disabling a person , gang members will face a mandatory minimum of 20 years , and for all other gang crimes , gang members will face a 10-year mandatory minimum penalty .  the mandatory minimums contained in this legislation are carefully tailored to deter and disrupt violent gang activity as swiftly as possible .  these mandatory minimum penalties reflect congress 's duty to ensure that violent gang members are consistently and fairly incarcerated .  further , prosecutors and law enforcement will tell you that in the absence of mandatory guidelines , such penalties are the only way to secure the cooperation of lower-level gang members who have critical information about the tightly-knit gang structure and gang crimes to testify and cooperate against higher-level gang members who typically insulate themselves from the day-to-day criminal activity .  gang members who wish to avoid the mandatory minimum penalty can do so by freely and willingly deciding to cooperate against other gang members .  madam chairman , i wish to take a minute to underscore the support for this measure from law enforcement , and by that , i mean the brave men and women who are on the streets every day putting their lives on the line to fight the gang epidemic in our country .  since this measure was introduced , we have received strong letters of support from organizations representing state and local law enforcement agencies across our country , including the fraternal order of police , the national sheriffs association , the national association of police officers , the national latino peace officers association , the national troopers coalition , the major county chief association , the law enforcement alliance of america , the association for los angeles deputy sheriffs , the district attorney for new orleans , the california gang investigators association and the international union of police associations .  when law enforcement speaks with such a clear and unanimous voice , we have a duty to listen , to act now and to give their members the tools and resources they need to fight and win this battle on behalf of america 's law-abiding citizens .  i want to thank my two colleagues , the gentleman from virginia ( mr. forbes )  and the gentleman from virginia ( mr. wolf )  for their strong and committed leadership on this issue .  they have dedicated both time and effort to h.r. 1279 and should be commended for their focus on combating this disturbing national trend .  i urge my colleagues to support this vital public safety legislation .  tough , determinate sentencing policies have worked to reduce crime in the last 20 years , and now , we are facing a new challenge .  gang violence is a growing national scourge that requires a tough and measured response .  stiff penalties and additional resources to law enforcement will send a clear and unmistakable message to the violent criminal gang members that their conduct will no longer be tolerated .  i urge my colleagues to support this legislation .  madam chairman , i reserve the balance of my time .  madam chairman , i yield myself 30 seconds .  madam chairman , i deeply respect the arguments that have been advanced by the gentleman from california ( mr. schiff )  .  he put forth his proposal in committee , and it was defeated on a rollcall vote of 3 ayes to 22 noes .  so the schiff proposal did not even carry a majority of the democratic members in the committee , let alone the republican members .  madam chairman , i yield myself such time as i may consume .  madam chairman , i have been here for a number of years ; and when you are against a bill , you can come up with a million and one reasons why the bill should not pass .  we just heard some of that ; but if we do not do anything , the killings are going to continue .  we can have a legitimate disagreement on mandatory minimum sentences , but i think there are some crimes that are so severe and eat away so much at the roots of our society and the fabric of our society that those who are convicted of those crimes ought to be locked up and locked up for sure , because only with a certain jail term are we going to be able to punish those who have killed people in the most brutal manner and deter those who might be thinking of doing it to others in our society .  i have here an april 26 story from the associated press , dateline , houston : `` violent gang linked to nine houston area killings. '' i am not going to read the whole story on the floor , but i am going to read one paragraph of this story to show that those who wish to delay this bill because it has a mandatory minimum or because it does not do enough social work are wrong : `` harris county sheriff 's investigators arrested five members of mara salvatrucha , '' which is ms-13 , `` in connection with the shooting death of 18-month-old alden naquin , who was trapped in his car seat april 12 when a man opened fire on a car driven by his father , ernest naquin. '' i think if someone is convicted of murdering an 18-month-old in that circumstance they ought to be locked away for sure and for a long time .  i am sorry people disagree with that , but i hope that this bill passes .  madam chairman , i yield myself 15 seconds .  madam chairman , i am sure that a social worker would have been able to convince the person who murdered the 18-month-old not to do it .  mr. chairman , i yield myself the balance of my time .  mr. chairman , the opponents of this bill seem to zero in on two things .  first of all , they are opposed to mandatory minimum sentences .  people may have a philosophical disagreement on mandatory minimum sentences , but it seems to me that given the violence of gang activity , the number of murders , the number of maimings , that a mandatory minimum sentence is absolutely necessary to get these people off the streets if the twelve persons on the jury believe that that defendant has committed those crimes beyond a reasonable doubt .  the other thing we hear from the opponents is , they dust off the same old tired arguments that we need more and more spending on prevention programs , but no one has proven they work .  let us take a look at the facts .  violent crime rates over the last 30 years have dropped dramatically , by almost 50 percent .  at the same time , tough new determinant sentencing schemes have been enacted by congress , including mandatory minimums , truth-in-sentencing programs and other sentencing schemes where criminals go to jail for a specified period of time after their conviction .  prison populations have grown , and crimes have gone down .  the logic is clear .  we have to incarcerate and incapacitate the violent criminals in our society .  we have done so and must continue to do so .  this bill does that .  when we talk about spending more on prevention , consider these facts : conservative estimates show that the department of justice has already spent over $ 2 billion , that is with a `` b , '' of the taxpayers ' dollars between fiscal years 2001 through 2004 on juvenile and gang prevention programs .  from fiscal year 1999 through fiscal year 2005 , congress has appropriated $ 3.3 billion of the taxpayers ' dollars for juvenile justice programs within the department of justice .  have they worked ?  this is yet to be proven , because juvenile gang violence is on the rise .  the percentage of homicides committed by gangs has risen , and the number of juveniles committing gang murders has also risen .  so let me say that , if $ 3.3 billion over the last 6 years in intervention and prevention programs has not turned around this type of crime when other crime has gone down , maybe the time to throw the book at those who are engaged in juvenile gang violence is at hand .  that is why this bill ought to pass .  i urge the membership to vote aye .  mr. chairman , the material that is on page 20 relates to a clarification of the ban on possession of hand guns by juveniles .  it appears to me that the clarification does not clarify the statute .  the best thing to do is to completely remove the clarification as was proposed , thus leaving the current law intact , which means that if a juvenile possesses a hand gun , he will have to have a written note stating that he is authorized to do so from his parent .  mr. speaker , on that i demand the yeas and nays .  mr. chairman , i rise in support of h.r. 1279 , which will increase the prosecution of gangs and help prevent gang-related crimes .  gang violence is a serious problem , and we need to address it with determination and creativity .  a recent rash of gang-related violence has left four injured and one person dead in the city of norwalk this year .  my own home town of bridgeport has faced a tough gang problem for years .  it is absolutely essential we have strong legislation on the books to send gang members who commit violent acts into jail and off our streets .  i want to stress , however , the importance of prevention programs to deter our vulnerable youth from turning to gangs to support .  the mentoring program in the norwalk public school system , which will benefit from the recent department of education federal grant we secured , plays a strong role in keeping kids off the streets .  the bottom line is , while we need to make sure juvenile offenders understand the consequences of their actions and are punished for them , we need to make every effort to help youth who are at risk of becoming juvenile offenders .  mentoring programs designed to reduce children 's juvenile delinquency and involvement in gangs and provide positive relationships to help guide them during their school years are an invaluable way to break the cycle of gang membership before it begins .  incarceration will put criminals away but it wo n't save more kids from falling through the cracks and turning to a life of crime .  madam chairman , let me begin by thanking the gentleman from virginia ( mr. forbes )  for doing this .  and every member of this house on both sides should thank the gentleman .  and i thank the chairman and the staff of the judiciary committee for moving this legislation .  march issue of newsweek : `` they are a violent force in 33 states and counting .  the most dangerous gang in america , ms-13. '' they killed 10 people in northern virginia .  and i will tell the gentleman from los angeles , they have killed a number of people out in your area too .  there was a washington post editorial about this and a story where it talks about a young parent .  the eldest son , age 15 , was sitting on the steps of a nearby apartment with two friends when he was gunned down .  the friends were wounded , but survived .  the son was killed almost instantly .  the mother remarked , we moved here to get away from the gangs .  the brutality of these gangs .  they took brenda paz , who was in the witness protection program down to the shenandoah valley and slashed her throat to where her neck was cut all the way almost through , and stabbed her 16 times .  they prey on the poor .  they prey on the poor in the inner cities .  they prey on the poor in culmore .  i have said , the people of culmore and the people of the inner city have just as much right to live in the upscale neighborhoods where they may not be .  this is a good bill .  and when we protect the most vulnerable in our society , we protect everybody .  i have talked to the community in different areas of my district and in culmore through this region .  they live in fear .  and i say whether you have been in this country for 50 years and are wealthy or whether you have been here for 50 hours and you live in an area where you are trying to work your way out , you deserve the right to be protected .  and the bill by the gentleman from virginia ( mr. forbes )  protects the poor .  this bill protects those who are being preyed upon .  and i hope and i pray , on behalf of brenda paz who was stabbed 16 times and the families that live in culmore and the families that live out in l.a .  and the families that live in houston , and the families that live throughout the state of virginia that are suffering with this , that this bill passes overwhelmingly and goes on to the senate , and they pass it so we can finally get relief , not for the wealthy but for those who live in culmore and the inner city , who , up until this time , have been forgotten by this institution .  finally , with the forbes bill , this will do more to help them .  madam chairman , i thank the gentleman from wisconsin for the time .  i rise today in strong support of h.r. 1279 , and i commend the gentleman from wisconsin ( chairman sensenbrenner ) for his leadership in bringing this bill to the floor for a vote today .  madam chairman , gang violence is on the rise across the united states .  areas once thought safe harbors from crime are now under the threat of expanding gang violence .  my district is not home to a center city area .  it is considered a suburban area .  bucks county is a quiet pastoral suburb of the city of philadelphia , an area bordered by farms to the north , business centers to the south , residential areas to the west , and the delaware river to the east .  however , the majority of crime in my district takes place in a very small , concentrated area .  but the people of bristol , bucks county , are taking the lead in cleaning up their streets .  the hard work of don billingsley and other neighbor leaders have made bristol a shining example of the department of justice 's weed and seed initiative to take back neighborhoods from crime .  however , bristol is under threat from gangs migrating from cities just across the river in new jersey .  madam chairman , three things are needed to make sure gangs do not infiltrate areas like bristol : people , money , and strong anti-crime laws .  well , in bristol , we have the money and we have financial resources through the weed and seed program , but what we need are strong laws .  h.r. 1279 is the bill that would dissuade gangs from taking up shop in my district .  gang violence is an issue that must be dealt with immediately .  the house committee on the judiciary reports that over 631 gang-related homicides occurred in 2001 , perpetrated by an estimated 750 , 000 active gang members .  gangs are directly linked to narcotics trade , human trafficking , identification document fraud , violent maiming , assault and murder , and the use of firearms to commit deadly shootings ; but the problem does not stop there .  organized crime syndicates like the ultra-violent ms-13 have reportedly agreed to smuggle terrorists over our southern borders .  this is now a homeland security issue .  h.r. 1279 will apply a rico-type approach to prosecuting modern street gangs .  at the heart of this bill are provisions that allow prosecutors to go after the gangs as an enterprise .  rather than trying to shoehorn such cases into the existing rico statute , the new gang crime statute is narrowly tailored to address the specific problem of gangs .  gang investigations and prosecutions take time and resources , and those resources will be provided by this bill .  organized crime , madam chairman , has been prosecuted in the same way with long and complex trials designed to take out a number of defendants in one single prosecution , and they were successful in ending their spread .  madam chairman , let us give our police and prosecutors the freedom to end the spread of gang violence .  madam chairman , i spent 22 years as a judge in texas trying criminal cases , felonies ; 22 , 000 felony cases came through my court .  they dealt with everything from major theft to capital murder cases .  and a lot of those cases were gang cases .  and the people in this country who believe and think that gangs are not a problem are sorely mistaken .  it was the action operative of the gangs in the houston area to use juveniles to commit serious crimes , violent crimes , because those very juveniles and these gang leaders knew that juveniles would be treated differently , as they were .  these gangs would almost laugh at the criminal justice system because the juveniles would not face the same type of punishment as adults .  this portion of the bill that treats juveniles in some cases the same as adults is a good idea , because , in our country , victims continue to be discriminated against based on the age of offenders .  those days need to end , especially with gang members .  this is an important issue .  i , too , like the previous speakers are concerned about whether this is a states ' rights issue or not .  but gangs cross state lines .  no longer are they just a local terrorist community .  and they are terrorists , madam chairman .  we , at this time , are engaged in a war against international terrorists .  we need to be concerned about the street terrorists who roam our neighborhoods and commit violent crimes in the name of some type of gang .  a specific powerful enemy to the united states is the ms-13 gang .  we need to be concerned about them because they are a terrorist group .  they are gang members .  so the first duty of government is to protect its citizens .  we do that abroad .  we need to do it against those street terrorists that live among us .  i support this bill .  mr. speaker , as the congressman said , i have 33 years of law enforcement experience .  in fact , up until january 3 of this year , i was a cop .  one of the things i know about cops is that they need all kinds of tools , and we do need police officers on the street ; but one of the most important things that cops want is to know that their community supports them , local , state , and federal .  mr. speaker , we are here today to talk about a very serious problem .  across the country we are seeing a resurgence of organized crime sprawling into our towns and our neighborhoods .  gangs are becoming a magnet for youth , as they long to belong to something .  this is hardly the team we want our children to join .  gang violence in america is not a sudden problem .  it has been a part of urban life for years , offering an aggressive definition and identity to those seeking a place to belong in the chaos of a large metropolitan area .  however , as gangs gain momentum and invade smaller communities , it is time to take a more serious and focused approach .  the gentleman from virginia ( mr. forbes )  addresses this critical problem today in the gang deterrence and community protection act of 2005 .  prior to being elected to sheriff , as i said , i served 33 years as a cop .  i have worked with prostitutes , drug dealers , and gang bangers for that length of time .  my colleagues in the sheriff 's office and i actively fought to curb the growth and influence of gangs .  i know not only in my home state of washington but across the country , law enforcement officers recognize gangs for the serious threat they are to our community .  i believe in taking problems head on , not running away .  you evaluate the facts , you make a decision , and then you see the solution through .  we have recognized the consequence of letting this situation go forward for far too long .  it is dangerous to all americans .  whether a gang currently has a presence in our hometowns or not , we need to take a careful look at where this issue is headed and stop the influence of gangs before it spirals out of control and out of our hands .  the united states department of justice cites that there are currently 25 , 000 active gangs in 3 , 000 jurisdictions across this country ; 25 , 000 gangs .  that equals 750 , 000 gang members .  if growth continues , we could be looking at 1 million gang members across the country in only a few years .  these groups are a funnel to criminal activities , allowing a central point to encourage violence and a family that preaches drug trafficking , murder , theft , prostitution , and rape .  in fact , street gangs are the primary distributor of illegal drugs in the united states .  mr. speaker , i am a man of faith who believes deeply in family and responsibility .  our obligation is to american families and communities .  we need to look out for their futures .  we need to direct our youth towards a path of success and progress as productive members of society looking towards a better country .  we can not afford to lose those talented youths in our community to a life on the street with drugs and a gang hierarchy whose form of discipline is violence .  mr. speaker , i applaud the gentleman from virginia 's efforts to deter gangs across the country and urge my colleagues to support the rule and vote for final passage later today .  mr. speaker , it is with a combination of perhaps resignation and frustration with which i stand here .  will rogers once said , in explaining the length of a political platform , that it takes a lot of words to straddle an issue , and i have every intention of using a lot of words here this morning .  i think , like many people , like most of us , we have no fear of free trade , that the united states , playing on a level playing field , can easily compete in the world market , and i do not ascribe to some of the statements that i think have been somewhat overzealous or vitriolic in describing policies here .  i also agree that in some respects moving out of the policy we have right now without a substantial alternative would be chaotic .  having said that , this is where the `` but '' comes in .  i intend on either giving a symbolic vote or maybe a symbolic speech in place of that vote with concerns of sovereignty issues that are dealt with here and that some of those voices that are concerned about sovereignty issues are not just simply those fearful of the dark but there are legitimate concerns which require a periodic reanalysis of what we are doing .  i speak specifically about a case which has sent the attorney general from the state of utah to join 28 attorney generals from other states in protest of the situation in which the world trade organization has thrown state statutes in jeopardy .  antigua , with which we had a policy dating back to 1993 , has complained that laws prohibiting internet gambling as well as gambling and betting paraphernalia , which have been for about 100 years the social policy of utah , violate trade organizations ; and the trade organization ruled in favor of antigua .  it is inherently wrong for any adjudicative panel of any organization , internationally or trade , to put in jeopardy the kinds of state laws that we have in place , especially when they deal with social policies that have been there for almost 100 years .  whether this is simply a glitch in negotiations that can easily be worked out or whether this is a systemic problem or whether , as the attorney generals are arguing , that the states need a greater voice in the organization and the application of these trade policies , especially if it is going to relate to state law , that is the discussion that needs to take place .  my state may have lucked out because a clerical error in this particular case did not refer specifically to the utah state law ; and , therefore , it may not be applicable .  but the fear factor is still there , that in the future state efforts , state regulations and state policies may be put in jeopardy not only by our trade policies but also by federal regulations that affect those trade policies when they ought not to be .  that is the issue that needs to be periodically addressed .  i recognize that this particular resolution is very narrow in its application .  it may not be specifically on that point , but it does at least give us the opportunity of saying not only is that an issue and a concern for the future but it is an issue that we should take seriously and we should discuss seriously and we should address seriously so that these particular problems , especially as it deals with state issues and state rights , will not be put in jeopardy with the future .  mr. speaker , i rise in support of this rule and in very , very strong opposition to what this resolution is attempting to do .  the great economist milton friedman once said , `` underlying most arguments against the free market is a lack of belief in freedom itself. '' now , mr. speaker , if we listen carefully to the reasons we commonly hear for abandoning our open trade agenda , it becomes very clear that milton friedman was absolutely right .  we hear these claims all the time : free trade agreements will leave working families without good jobs .  trade liberalization will weaken worker rights in developing countries .  lowering barriers to open trade will devastate the environment .  the underlying claim is that greater economic freedom will harm americans and our trading partners alike , but this fear of freedom is not based in fact .  following world war ii , the world 's major trading partners came together , the global leaders , and established the general agreement on tariffs and trade , the gatt .  this agreement was designed to establish an international system of fair trade rules , pursuing that goal of the complete elimination of tariff and nontariff barriers , providing a forum for trading partners to settle any disputes that existed .  the general agreement on tariffs and trade was the predecessor to what is now known as the world trade organization .  through trade liberalization that the gatt and the wto have enabled , with the existence of those , have seen average tariffs in industrialized countries go from 40 percent down to 4 percent , spurring a six-fold increase in global gdp .  and , of course , remember , a tariff is a tax , so by reducing that tariff burden , through the goal of the gatt and now the wto , we have been able to reduce the tax burden on consumers throughout the world .  so we have seen , by virtue of that 40 percent to 4 percent reduction , a six-fold increase in gross domestic product growth .  since the creation of the world trade organization 11 years ago , u.s. exports have increased by $ 300 billion .  we have seen our exports since the establishment of the wto increase by $ 300 billion .  over this time period , exports have come to support over 25 percent of the economic growth that we enjoy in the united states .  remember , we have a , virtually , almost $ 11 trillion economy here in the united states .  25 percent of the growth in that economy is due to exports .  open trade and investment has netted an extra $ 1 trillion in u.s. income every year , or about $ 10 , 000 per household , as a result of those reductions that we have seen in tariff and nontariff barriers .  as the world 's largest exporter and importer , the united states has the most to gain from the lower trade barriers and fairer global trade rules that the wto brings .  by reducing tariffs , strengthening intellectual property protection , and increasing transparency in all of the 148 member countries , the wto is our largest , most comprehensive , and most effective forum for expanding markets and creating new opportunities for americans .  the wto has also been an important tool for the united states in ensuring that international trade commitments are honored .  of the 47 wto cases brought by the united states that have been concluded , 44 have been resolved in our favor .  that is a 94 percent success rate for the united states of america within the structure of the world trade organization .  our wto membership has been absolutely critical in maintaining our global economic leadership .  with 80 percent of the world 's economy and 95 percent of the world 's consumers outside of the united states , our role in the wto remains essential to opening new markets and expanding existing ones for u.s. producers , service providers , and investors .  but the wto is not our only forum for liberalizing trade rules and expanding foreign markets for american goods and services .  the free trade agreement negotiating process has long been highly successful in opening up new opportunities for americans .  we are on the forefront of i hope passing the dominican republic central american free trade agreement , which is critical to continuing on that path of prosperity that began with the gatt back in 1947 and has continued through the wto , the north american free trade agreement , and a wide range of bilateral agreements that we have put together over the past several years with israel , jordan , chile , singapore , australia and morocco , among others .  dr-cafta will make our trading relationship with the region reciprocal by granting u.s. producers the same access to their markets that the dominican republic-central american producers have long enjoyed in ours .  it will boost the competitiveness and productivity of american companies and workers by providing an export and investment destination that fully respects the rule of law and protects intellectual property rights .  but even more important , mr. speaker , it will empower the dominican republic-central american countries to experience the economic growth , increased prosperity , and rising living standards that americans have long enjoyed .  all of the benefits of trade that i have described , greater family incomes , export-supported growth , transparent and fair trading rules for u.s. companies that participate in the global marketplace , these are all benefits , these are all benefits that our neighbors in latin america deserve to enjoy along with us .  again , there are many who will argue against greater economic freedom .  they will say that it will cost american jobs .  they will say that workers and the environment and the dr-cafta bill will be devastating .  they will in effect argue that the region is too poor to trade with us .  but we can not let this unfounded fear of economic freedom cause us to abandon our very important open trade agenda .  we are very fortunate to have our former colleague , rob portman , now serving as our ambassador , as the representative , the head of focusing on the whole issue of trade , the u.s. trade representative for us .  we have to work closely with him , through the world trade organization , to tear down tariff and nontariff barriers to trade .  we must continue to utilize this very important forum to ensure that our trading partners stick with their commitment .  living with a rules-based trading system is the only way that we are going to be able to vigorously pursue the diminution of those barriers to the free flow of goods and services throughout the world .  so , for the sake of the american people , for the sake of those throughout the world who are seeking to get onto the first rung of the economic ladder , it is absolutely imperative that the united states of america maintain its leadership role in the world trade organization .  mr. speaker , today the house will undoubtedly vote down this resolution and signal strong support for remaining in the world trade organization .  this is the right decision to make .  it is the right decision to make because the wto , and its predecessor , the gatt , have served as a catalyst to reduce both tariff and non-tariff barriers for u.s. exports .  since the formation of the gatt , average tariffs in industrialized countries have gone down from 40 to less than 4 percent ; since the creation of the wto in 1994 , u.s. exports have increased by $ 300 billion .  of course , the wto has also served as a useful forum to breakdown barriers to u.s. agricultural exports where bilateral negotiations could not .  while i will vote against this resolution today , it is not without any reservation .  mr. speaker , i believe the resolution on the floor today provides the ideal time to pause and reflect on the shortcomings of the current wto system and on ways both the congress and the administration can make changes to the wto structure so that it works better and rebuilds confidence in the system among our constituencies .  i find the lack of any serious effort to reform the current wto culture and structure to fix the flaws with the unsatisfactory .  there are a host of problems with the wto , and the number of problems is only growing .  the wto completely lacks any degree of transparency ; hearings are closed to the public and public transcripts are not released .  where , in a very limited manner , wto rules permit limited transparency by allowing the assistance and resources of private parties who are supportive of the u.s. government position , the administration has chosen not to utilize this allowance .  transparency is not the only problem contributing to the wto 's failure to move rules-based trade forward globally , but it is the central factor allowing the wto and its bureaucrats to escape the scrutiny which would quickly eradicate other abuses in geneva .  through the lack of transparency , the wto dispute settlement and appellate bodies are emboldened to disregard the proper standard of review in disputes involving trade laws , for example .  in this way , past wto panels have issued rogue decisions against the u.s. with no basis or standing in the context of previously negotiated agreements .  this rampant judicial activism is rapidly undermining the support for the wto .  as the wto is particularly prone to yankee-bashing , support for the current , broken system is perhaps fading fastest here at home .  a slew of activist decisions against the u.s. , attacking our trade remedy laws and another decision amounting to micromanagement of u.s. tax policy have come at a steady pace .  these decisions have been particularly frustrating to many members of congress because of limited opportunity for oversight by congress of the wto or its decisions which affect our domestic laws and domestic employers .  i , along with several of my ways and means colleagues , last congress introduced the trade law reform act .  this legislation included a provision to establish a wto dispute settlement review commission .  this commission , composed of retired federal judges , would report to congress after reviewing wto decisions adverse to the u.s. in order to determine whether the relevant decision makers failed to follow the applicable standard of review or otherwise abused their mandate .  today , we have spent two hours debating whether congress should withdraw from the wto .  yet , absent a new entity to administer and advance rules-based trade , there is no question that we must remain committed to , and engaged in , the wto .  i would submit that instead of debating whether to withdraw from the wto , congress should have an active debate on ways we can make the current system work properly , as it was designed to do , and ways to make it better .  the u.s. must move swiftly to put an end to judicial activism in the wto and reorganize the structure and culture of both the appellate body and the dispute settlement body .  additionally , the ustr should deputize private parties with a direct and substantial interest in a case to appear and participate in wto proceedings and devote greater resources to litigation in wto disputes .  mr. speaker , congress must also establish new mechanisms to increase oversight of the wto .  mr. speaker , by direction of the committee on rules , i call up house resolution 304 and ask for its immediate consideration .  mr. speaker , for the purpose of debate only , i yield the customary 30 minutes to the gentlewoman from california ( ms. matsui )  , pending which i yield myself such time as i may consume .  mr. speaker , house resolution 304 is a rule providing for 2 hours of general debate on h. j. res. 27 , withdrawing the approval of the united states from the agreement establishing the world trade organization , to be equally divided among and controlled by the chairman and ranking member of the committee on ways and means , the gentleman from texas ( mr. paul )  , and the gentleman from vermont ( mr. sanders )  .  the rule provides that during consideration of h. j. res. 27 pursuant to this resolution , notwithstanding the operation of the previous question , the chair may postpone further consideration of the bill to a time designated by the speaker .  mr. speaker , i rise today in support of this fair rule , but in opposition to the underlying h. j. res. 27 , withdrawing the approval of the united states from the agreement establishing the world trade organization .  in 1994 , congress passed the uruguay round table agreements act establishing the world trade organization , an independent body charged with monitoring and determining compliance with trade agreements .  that law authorized the president to accept the united states ' membership in the wto and requires a report to be submitted to congress every 5 years on the united states ' participation in the wto .  the law also offers congress the opportunity every 5 years to assess whether continued membership in this organization is in the best interest of the united states .  i believe that members of the house should be afforded this opportunity to register their views on this question through a vote of the house , which i urge my colleagues to vote on in support of this rule .  the united states already has low tariffs , few subsidies , and a history of abiding bylaws and agreements .  our farmers and producers in my area in central washington and across the country are some of the most efficient in the world and are capable of competing and winning in world markets , so long as they do not face foreign government policies like subsidies and dumping practices that stack the deck against them .  the enforcement of a rules-based trading system through the world trade organization is our best opportunity to gain access to these markets for our nation 's farmers and rural communities .  the removal of artificial barriers to trade is of critical importance to apple growers and tree fruit farmers in the agricultural-based economy in central washington that i represent .  i am pleased that in 2003 , the world trade organization stood up for the apple growers in central washington and across the nation by leveling the playing field in a dispute over japan 's import restrictions on imported u.s. apples .  for nearly a decade , u.s. apple growers dealt with japan 's unjustified import requirements , which are imposed with no scientifically sound evidence .  trade restrictions should be based on scientific evidence and should be implemented on a limited basis , not used merely as tools to create unfair trade barriers .  the world trade organization ruled that japan 's restrictions were not justified and were in breach of their world trade organization obligations .  this united states victory brought the hopes of meaningful access to japan 's markets to the domestic apple industry and will help us fight similar trade barriers in markets throughout the world .  withdrawing from the world trade organization would result in our farmers , growers , and producers being shut out of these export opportunities and the loss of millions of jobs depending on them .  therefore , i believe that we must support our nation 's continued membership in the wto and must continue aggressive enforcement of the rules of international trade .  our nation 's economy can continue to grow if we have access to global markets on a level playing field .  so , mr. speaker , i urge my colleagues to support the rule and to oppose the underlying bill .  mr. speaker , i reserve the balance of my time .  mr. speaker , i reserve the balance of my time .  mr. speaker , i just ask my friend from california , i have no more requests for time except for me to close .  mr. speaker , i yield myself the balance of the time .  mr. speaker , american workers produce goods that are second to none .  however , our success in selling these goods in a global marketplace , and we have to admit that we are in a global market , is dependent on fair and open markets .  the world trade organization continues to advance and create more fair and open markets .  while i oppose the underlying bill , members of the congress should have the opportunity today to examine the merits of the united states ' participation in the wto .  the debate on house resolution 27 is an important one , and one that should be had .  so i urge my colleagues to support the rule , house resolution 304 , and to oppose the underlying bill .  mr. speaker , i yield back the balance of my time , and i move the previous question on the resolution .  the previous question was ordered .  the resolution was agreed to .  a motion to reconsider was laid on the table .  mr. speaker , i thank the gentleman from texas and the gentleman from vermont ( mr. sanders )  for bringing this joint resolution to the floor .  mr. speaker , i come to the floor today because i believe that wto membership has been a disaster for the u.s. worker .  since wto , 1995 , america 's annual trade deficit grew from $ 96 billion to $ 617 billion .  my home state of north carolina has lost over 251 , 000 manufacturing jobs .  the united states has lost over 2.9 million manufacturing jobs .  mr. speaker , it was not too long ago that , i did not vote for it , but we gave trade promotion authority to the president of the united states .  i was opposed to it when mr. clinton asked for it .  i was opposed to it when mr. bush asked for it .  and let me tell the members what has happened since trade promotion authority , august of 2002 .  north carolina has lost over 52 , 000 manufacturing jobs , and the united states has lost over 600 , 000 manufacturing jobs .  let me take just a moment to talk about how wto membership strips american sovereignty .  if the united states does not change its laws to suit wto , then america 's businesses and consumers face trade sanctions .  trade disputes are decided by international panels that are hand-picked by the wto .  the identities of panel members are kept secret , and deliberations are kept confidential .  these wto panels have ruled in favor of the united states less than one-third of the time .  they have ruled in favor of the united states less than one-third of the time .  wto panel rulings go far beyond trade .  in fact , the wto panel recently found a utah law prohibiting internet gambling to be illegal .  what will the wto do next ?  let me quote from robert stumberg , a trade law expert at georgetown university , from business week , march 7 , 2005 .  i quote : `` if bush successfully engineers the introduction of private social security accounts , wto rules would require the feds to let foreign money managers and insurers bid to manage them. '' how far do we have to go before we give up the sovereignty of this nation ?  i do not know about you , mr. speaker , but i think letting the chinese manage american social security accounts is a bad idea .  unfortunately , under wto , there is little we can do to prevent it .  we have already outsourced 1.5 million jobs since 1989 to the chinese .  we do not need to give control over to the chinese of social security accounts in america .  mr. speaker , before i close , i want to make a real quick point .  on my right , this chart shows on july 31 , 2003 , in north carolina we lost 6 , 450 jobs .  it says , `` five north carolina plants close in the largest single job loss in the state 's history. '' just 3 weeks ago , mr. speaker , a plant in my district announced that 445 jobs would be going overseas .  mr. speaker , i close by asking my colleagues that care about the american workers and care about the sovereignty of america to please join us in this effort .  mr. speaker , i rise today to comment on h. j. res. 27 , which seeks to withdraw the approval of the united states from the agreement establishing the world trade organization .  during my first term in congress , i witnessed firsthand the breakdown in affairs at the world trade organization 's trade negations in mexico .  negotiations collapsed as delegates from many underdeveloped countries celebrated their perceived success as an increasingly powerful band of poor farming countries , known as g-21 , held strong to prevent talks from proceeding .  it is important that each participating country have a voice in negotiations , but by banding together to divert trade talks , underdeveloped countries ultimately hurt themselves .  no one in europe or the united states will starve to death because of their efforts , but the citizens in their own countries will be put at risk .  what occurred puts the viability of the wto in question , but it also allows the u.s. to go forth with trade promotion authorization on its own .  while i believe the wto needs reform , i do not want us to abandon our place at the table .  if america were to pull out of the wto , we would lose the ability to influence the organization and its negotiations internally .  our farmers and producers in iowa and across the country are some of the most efficient in the world and are capable of competing and winning in world markets , so long as they do not face unfair foreign government policies .  the enforcement of a rules-based trading system through the world trade organization is our best opportunity to gain access to these markets for our nation 's farmers and rural communities .  mr. speaker , i intend to vote against h. j. res. 27 because it is clear that our economic interests continue to benefit from engagement with trading partners .  mr. speaker , i thank the gentleman from florida for yielding me this time , and i want to associate myself with his remarks , and i appreciate his leadership on this .  mr. speaker , i rise in opposition to the resolution calling for the u.s. withdrawal from the world trade organization .  the wto is the most important international organization that governs world trade .  decisions are made by the member countries .  the wto has 148 members and 31 observer governments , many of those , most of those are applicants for membership .  its members represent over 95 percent of world trade .  trade agreements administered by the wto cover a broad range of goods and services trade and apply to virtually all government practices that directly relate to trade ; for example , tariffs , subsidies , government procurement , and trade-related intellectual property rights .  u.s. membership and leadership in the world trade organization is essential .  it is definitely in our national and our political and our economic interests to continue to be a member .  our membership translates into real economic growth in this country , as the gentleman from florida very correctly said .  during the 10 years of u.s. participation in the wto , international trade and investment have been important forces driving our impressive economic growth .  over that period , trade accounted for one-quarter of all u.s. economic growth and supported an estimated 12 million jobs .  furthermore , trade promotes economic competition , which keeps inflation low .  now , let me take just one moment to rebut an all-too-often made allegation against u.s. membership in the wto , namely , that membership is a violation of u.s. sovereignty and the u.s. constitution .  wto dispute panels can not overturn or change u.s. federal , state , or local laws .  they have no authority to change a u.s. law or to require the united states or any state or local government to change its laws or decisions .  only the federal or state governments can change a federal or state law .  if a u.s. law is inconsistent with the wto , our trading partners may withdraw trade benefits of equivalent effect .  however , under trade agreement rules , the united states retains complete sovereignty in its decision of how to respond to any panel decision against it .  that was made abundantly clear the last several years as congress grappled with changes to our corporate tax structures for foreign sales corporations , or fsc , to accommodate commitments we have made to our trading partners .  only congress could make those changes to the law as we grapple , and we grappled , with that .  those who falsely portray the wto as a violation of u.s. sovereignty are ones who simply want an unfettered ability to preserve or create more protectionism .  i urge my colleagues to vote against this resolution and to continue the u.s. membership in the world trade organization .  mr. speaker , although i disagree with much of what the wto does , i do not think it is in the best interest of our nation to withdraw from that organization at this time .  doing so would give the united states little bargaining power as we work to promote a global economy that is both free and fair .  withdrawal would put in jeopardy negotiations that are necessary to meet that goal .  however , my support for the long-term goal of more equitable international trade does not translate into blanket support , but it is difficult to ignore the fact that the u.s. is increasingly the target of wto action .  we are sued more than any other country , and our laws seem to be condemned by the wto every month .  we have been the defendant in 19 of the last 36 cases decided by the appellate body .  these negative decisions have threatened american products and american businesses with sanctions .  for example , in recent years the wto has disapproved everything from our tax policies and trade laws to our sovereign right to regulate activity such as internet gambling and set tariffs against unfair pricing by foreign countries .  it is becoming all too clear that these decisions are not the result of any shortcomings by this country or any true violation of international rules ; rather , one must wonder if we are facing a forum that sees our country 's prosperity and economic success as an opportunity to further bolster their own industries and markets .  it seems as though nations are using the wto to gain through litigation that they could not secure through negotiation .  but to help our economy , we can not turn toward a simplistic , bellicose jingoism approach that blames the wto and seeks protectionism as the answer to all .  what we need to do on our own is to pass our energy policy that is otherwise costing us millions of jobs and to pass our own health care reforms to cut costs and not cut care .  free trade is in everyone 's best interest , and the wto negotiations are vital to securing new markets for american products and creating new jobs for american workers .  the negotiations must ultimately bring us to a system that is fair for all member countries while respecting the fundamental rights of a nation to determine its own law .  this administration needs to pay very close attention to the issue as we can not sit idly by while the world unfairly threatens u.s. laws and remedies designed to protect our nation against unfair practices .  the wto clearly is not operating always in the best interests of the united states of america .  however , it is the forum that exists ; and as such , we need to remain partners with those that are vigilant and vigorous defenders of both free and fair trade in that forum for the benefit of our nation .  mr. speaker , i yield myself such time as i may consume .  mr. speaker , i rise in strong support of our position to remove ourselves from the wto .  my economic position is somewhat different from some of my allies , because i come at it from a free trade position .  i happen to believe in minimum tariffs , if any , but i do not believe that the process of the wto and world government is a good way to do it .  i do not think the wto achieves its purpose , and i do not think it is permissible under the constitution .  therefore , i strongly argue the case that , through the process , that we should defend the position of the congress which gives us the responsibility of dealing with international trade , with international foreign commerce .  that is our responsibility .  we can not transfer that responsibility to the president , and we can not transfer that responsibility to an international government body .  therefore , there are many of us who ally together to argue that case , although we may have a disagreement on how much tariffs we should have , because the congress should decide that .  we could have no tariffs ; we could have a uniform tariff , which the founders believed in and permitted ; or we could have protective tariffs , which some of those individuals on our side defend , and i am not that much interested in .  but the issue that unifies us is who should determine it .  for me , the determination should be by the u.s. congress and not to defer to an international government body .  now this always bewilders me , when my conservative friends and those who believe in limited government are so anxious to deliver this to another giant international body .  for instance , the wto employs over 600 people .  free trade , if you are interested in free trade , all you have to do is write a sentence or two , and you can have free trade .  you do not need 600 bureaucrats .  it costs $ 133 million to manage the wto every year .  of course , we pay the biggest sum , over $ 25 million for this , just to go and get permission or get our instructions from the wto .  we all know that we raised taxes not too long ago , not because the american people rose up and called their congressmen and said we wanted you to repeal this tax and change the taxes .  it was done in order to be an upstanding member of the wto .  we responded and took instructions from the wto and adapted our tax policy to what they desired .  one other issue that i think those who defend the wto and call themselves free traders ought to recognize is that when we concede the fact that there should be a trade-off , it means they really do not believe in free trade .  if you believe in free trade and the people have the right to spend their money the way they want , it would be as simple as that .  it would benefit that country , because you could get your goods and services cheaper .  but this whole concession to the management of trade through the wto says , all right , we are going to do this if you do this , and it acknowledges the fact that free trade does not work unless you get something for it .  that may be appealing to some , but a free trader should not argue that way .  because free trade , if it is a benefit , it is simply a benefit .  in the 1990s when the wto was originally passed , the former speaker of the house made a statement about this .  i want to quote from him .  this is from newt gingrich .  he was talking about the wto : `` i am just saying that we need to be honest about the fact that we are transferring from the united states at a practical level significant authority to a new organization .  this is a transformational moment .  i would feel better if the people who favor this would be honest about the scale of change .  this is not just another trade agreement .  this is adopting something which twice , once in the 1940s and once in the 1950s , the u.s. congress rejected .  i am not even saying that we should reject it .  i , in fact , lean toward it .  but i think we have to be very careful , because it is a very big transfer of power. '' i agree with newt gingrich on this .  it was a huge transfer of power .  i happen to believe it was an unconstitutional transfer of power ; and , therefore , we are now suffering the consequences because we have lost prerogatives and control of our own trade policy .  now the president of the ludwig von mises institute , a free market think tank , from auburn , alabma said , `` the world trade organization is supposed to be the great apparatus to push the world to greater economic integration .  in reality , it was nothing but the resurrection of the old central planning fallacy that the world needs a central authority to manage it .  the wto has ended up politicizing trade by putting the stamp of officialdom on some very bad policy. '' so my message is to appeal to those who believe in limited government , free markets , free trade and the constitution .  i appeal to those who want to use tariffs in a protective way because they defend the process .  but i am really appealing to the conservatives who claim they believe in free trade , because i do not believe what we have here is truly free trade .  the wto has already been able to influence our tax laws .  not too long ago , utah repealed a ban on electronic gambling for fear the wto would come in and find that violated free trade .  another area of importance to so many of us , both on the left and the right of the political spectrum , has to do with the codex commission regulation set up by the united nations .  how much regulation are we going to have on vitamins and nutrition products ?  the un already indicated the type of regulation .  guess who may , most likely , be the enforcer of these regulations ?  it will be the wto .  the europeans have much stricter regulations .  this means that some day the wto may well come to us and regulate the distribution of vitamins and nutritional supplements in this country , something that i do not think we should even contemplate .  the case can be made that if they have already pressured us to do things , they may well do it once again .  our administration is not too interested in the kyoto protocol , but that may well come down the road , and the enforcement of the kyoto protocol many believe will be enforced by the wto .  so this is big government , pure and simple .  it does not endorse free trade whatsoever .  it endorses managed trade ; and too often it is managed for the privileges of the very large , well-positioned companies .  it does not recognize the basic principle that we should defend as a free society individuals ought to have the right to spend their money the way they want .  that is what free trade is , and you can do that unilaterally without pain and suffering .  so i ask members to consider , why should we not reclaim some of our prerogatives , our authorities , our responsibility ?  we have given up too much over the years .  we have clearly given up our prerogatives on the declaration of war , and on monetary issues .  that has been given away by the congress .  and here it is on the trade issue .  i can remember an ad put out in the 1990s when the wto was being promoted and they talked directly , it was a full page ad , i believe , in the new york times .  they said , `` this is the third leg of the new world order. '' we had the world bank , we had the imf , and now we had the world trade organization .  so if you are a believer in big government and world government and you believe in giving up the prerogatives of the congress and not assuming our responsibility , i would say , go with the wto .  but if you believe in freedom , if you believe in the constitution and if you really believe in free trade , i would say we should vote to get out of the wto .  mr. speaker , i ask unanimous consent that my remaining time be allotted to the gentleman from vermont ( mr. sanders )  and that he be able to control that time .  mr. speaker , i rise in thoughtful support for h. j. res. 27 , and i say thoughtful because i believe we should take a good look at what we are doing and what has been proposed and try to figure out what is going to happen in the future , and what are the ideas that these decisions are based upon .  we are living in a time when a significant number of americans are rushing forward to support any effort to transfer sovereignty from elected officials in the united states to unelected officials elsewhere at a global level who will exercise power and control , mandate policies and shape our lives ; yet they are not elected by the people of the united states of america , as if we should expect them in the wto or even the united nations to watch out for our interests .  mr. speaker , it is our job to watch out for the interests of the american people .  we are elected to do so .  transferring our sovereignty and decisionmaking power to the wto , to the united nations , or any other international body is not in the long-term interests of our people .  the united states did this back in the 1950s or 1940s with the united nations , and it too was a dream , a dream for a better world , a new order that would bring about prosperity and peace .  what do we see now in the united nations , corruption at the highest levels and arrogance .  we see united nations peacekeeping troops stand by as people are massacred .  they themselves have participated in atrocities , and yet we see cover-up at the united nations and corruption .  is that the type of people we want to give sovereignty to ?  no .  so why do we think the wto is going to be any different ?  the wto is made up of nondemocratic countries as well as democratic countries , just like the united nations .  we are not going to bring them up ; they will bring us down if we give up our decision-making process to unelected bodies that have been set up .  they call it the new world order .  the new world order , what is that going to bring the american people ?  a loss of sovereignty , a loss of our ability to control our own destinies .  we will see the wto manipulated by special interests in the same way we have seen other bodies manipulated by special interests , but the wto will be made up of organizations that are comprised of governments that do not believe in democracy and honesty and free press and free speech and the standards we believe in .  mr. speaker , 10 years from now as the wto evolves , and even today , we will find our huge international corporations and international corporations in general going to these bodies and manipulating them and bribing them .  and why not accept the bribes ?  the people of burma or china or these other countries who are not democratic , who are not honest , that is their way of life .  so why are we transferring authority , putting our faith in an organization , even if today in the short run we can see some examples where it might be in our benefit ?  in the long run it is not to the benefit of the american people to give up this kind of decisionmaking .  if we want more trade in the world , we should establish bilateral trade agreements with other democratic countries .  that way we can control the decision-making process .  the major economic countries of the world will enter into those agreements .  i say we should have free trade between free people .  we should not be establishing superpowerful , unelected bodies by the wto to control our destiny in the united states and determine what economic policies we will have in the long run .  these things make no sense to me , and it is a great threat looming over us .  whatever examples can be given today of some good things that are happening , just remember what will happen 10 years down the road once these panels and bodies have been corrupted by the vicious dictatorships that we have let into the wto .  mr. speaker , i appreciate the gentleman for yielding me time .  mr. speaker , this is a good debate .  it is a good , healthy debate that we are having here on the floor of congress .  the earlier speaker , the gentleman from ohio , cited some papal encyclicals , but , as a practicing catholic , i will be the first to defend his right to do that here on the floor , but i also think there are some bigger issues we need to talk about .  first of all , how do we keep jobs in america ?  we all care about that .  this is what we are talking about .  i would argue we have got to do basically two things : stop pushing jobs overseas and stop countries from unfairly taking jobs overseas .  how do we stop pushing jobs overseas ?  well , for starters , we can address health care costs .  we can address the fact that we tax our businesses and our jobs more than any other country in the world , save japan .  we can address tort costs , regulatory costs , have a comprehensive energy policy to make energy more affordable .  how do we stop countries from unfairly taking jobs overseas ?  we have to remember , mr. speaker , that 97 percent of the world 's consumers are not in this country .  they are outside of this country .  one in five manufacturing jobs are tied to exports .  exports , on average , pay more than other jobs .  we can not put our head in the sand .  pulling out of the wto is the economic equivalent of throwing the baby out with the bath water .  what has happened since we have gone into the wto ?  let us look at the challenges that confront us .  we talk about china , a very appropriate topic to discuss here .  since china joined the wto , do my colleagues know how many laws we had to change and pass in america to go there ?  zero .  do my colleagues know how many laws china had to change , laws and regulations , to enter the wto ?  1 , 100 .  to get into the wto , to join countries of fair trade , china had to change 1 , 100 laws .  are they following all these rules and agreements ?  of course not .  but because they are in the wto , because we have the wto , we finally have a forum , a mechanism , a system to bring these countries into compliance to play by the rules .  if we did not have this system , all these countries could play by whatever rules they set .  we are the economic superpower of the world .  we play by the rules .  we are the most transparent , most honest , most basic system in the world .  we need other countries to play by the same rules , too , so we can all join together in growing economic growth here in america and across the world .  pulling out of the wto would be the economic equivalent of biting off our nose to spite our face .  since we have had china in the wto , i have been critical of the administration 's stance in its first 3 years .  i have joined with my colleagues on the other side of the aisle criticizing the administration on their china policy .  however , over the past year and a half , the administration , through the wto rules , has brought 12 different actions against china .  we are making success .  we are bringing accountability .  pull out now , and the situation gets much worse .  stay in it .  fight for fair trade .  we can clean up these rules , and that is the only way to bring other nations into the fair trade arena .  mr. speaker , pursuant to house resolution 304 , i call up the joint resolution ( h.j. res. 27 ) withdrawing the approval of the united states from the agreement establishing the world trade organization , and ask for its immediate consideration .  mr. speaker , i ask unanimous consent that all members may have 5 legislative days within which to revise and extend their remarks and include extraneous material on h. j. res. 27 , the joint resolution under consideration .  mr. speaker , i yield myself such time as i may consume .  mr. speaker , this morning the house considers the withdrawal of the united states from the world trade organization .  i strongly oppose this resolution and urge my members to join me in this opposition .  as a member of the world trade organization , the united states is one of 148 member countries .  our role in this global body is tremendously important , not only for the future of the united states trade but for the continuation of global trade liberalization .  as the world 's leading economy , the largest economy that has ever been on the face of this earth , we all too often focus our attention on the aspects of trade we disagree with .  when members of congress meet with our international counterparts , we spend a large amount of time discussing specific trade barriers and little time supporting the broad range of cooperation and successes that we may share .  continued membership in the world trade organization will allow the united states the opportunity to continue cooperating as we work towards free trade benefiting united states consumers , farmers , manufacturers and firms .  currently , the world trade organization is negotiating the doha round .  congress has been deeply involved with the administration as the round continues to move forward .  it is tremendously importantly that we remain active in these negotiations and push for a completed doha .  finally , i congratulate mr. pascal lamy of france on his selection as the new world trade organization director general .  i am hopeful his abilities will enable the world trade organization to balance the concerns of its members .  i look forward to working with him in the future .  finally , mr. speaker , it is my strong view that the united states greatly benefits from our continued participation in the world trade organization .  mr. speaker , i reserve the balance of my time .  mr. speaker , i yield myself such time as i may consume .  a lot of astounding remarks have been made since i stood up here and introduced this resolution , in the negative .  there are a couple of things i think we need to really talk about .  what has been the economic growth of the united states ?  how fast is our economy growing ?  it is growing at the rate of 4 percent .  how fast is the economy in europe growing ?  it is 1 percent .  how fast is the european economy growing ?  it is 1 percent .  the china economy is growing at 9 percent , but let us look at what that means .  nine percent of the chinese economy is less than 4 percent of our economy .  so i can say with all certainty that we have , in terms of dollars , the fastest growing economy in the world .  no question about that .  and of this economy , what percentage is exports ?  it is 25 percent .  are we not concerned about those jobs ?  and when we talk about the loss of jobs in the united states , we are not talking about a net loss ; we are talking about , yes , there has been some loss of jobs and , yes , a lot of these jobs have been because of foreign competition , yes .  but our economy has grown in other areas , so it has also created jobs .  if we look at just the jobless rate of where we are now and where we were a few years ago , we are doing pretty darn good .  if we look at the world economy , we are doing really good .  so why would we want to send a message to the administration by attempting to throw the world economy into chaos ?  it makes absolutely , absolutely no sense .  mr. speaker , just one moment , i think , to respond to the gentleman who was just in the well , and that is in the 10 years that we have been members of the world trade organization , our environmental laws have never been challenged , have never been challenged , nor will they .  mr. speaker , i reserve the balance of my time .  mr. speaker , so that no one listening to this debate is confused , this vote has nothing to do with dr-cafta , it has nothing to do with free trade , it is simply are we going to continue as part of the world trade organization .  mr. speaker , i would remind the gentleman in the well that of the 50 cases we have brought before the world trade organization , we have won 46 which is a 92 percent success rate .  mr. speaker , i yield myself the balance of my time .  there is quite a bit of ground that we have covered here this morning .  one is that somehow cafta has been brought into this debate by a couple of speakers .  i would like to submit for printing in the record a letter dated june 8 , 2005 , which was just yesterday , from former president jimmy carter to mr. bill thomas , the chairman of the ways and means committee , in support of cafta .  in this letter , he says , if the united states congress were to turn its back on cafta , it would undercut these fragile democracies , compel them to retreat to protectionism , and make it harder for them to cooperate with the united states .  this is the type of bipartisan cooperation that we are about here today .  it is important , i think , to realize that this resolution came before the ways and means committee because we were required to take it up if it were to be filed under the law originally bringing us into the world trade organization .  on both sides of the aisle , i believe i am correct on this , that the decision by the ways and means committee to report this out unfavorably to the house , which we had to do procedurally , but to report it out unfavorably , i think , was unanimous on both sides of the aisle .  there is criticism as to what is happening , and some people would like to change some of the things within the framework of the world trade organization , but the ways and means committee , i think , was very , very responsible .  now the question of jobs and the economy has been raised , and china has been brought into this debate .  china has got some problems with their currency and some things we need to do and their enforcement of their own laws .  i will yield that ground to those that bring that criticism to us .  but i think it is important to realize where those jobs are coming from or where those exports , who are the winners and losers with regard to the chinese exports .  the chinese exports are draining off the exports from japan , korea and other pacific asian countries .  that is where those jobs are coming from .  if you talk about and look at exactly the exports into the united states from that region of the world , you will see that it is fairly flat , not for china , but china is increasing its exports at the expense of these other countries .  the question has been brought into this debate as to the sovereignty of the united states .  it is very clear to anyone , any of the lawmakers in this congress , that congress and the president make united states laws .  the world trade organization can not change laws either today or in the future .  the world trade organization has no enforcement authority .  it can not impose fines , levies , sanctions , modify tariff rates or change the laws of any country .  the only sanction for a violation of the world trade organization is that affected world trade organization member , and that member country may in some cases impose retaliatory measures on trade of the country that violates the rules .  but that is not enforcement by the world trade organization .  the on the question of jobs and the exporting of american jobs , exports account for about 25 percent of the united states economic growth over the course of the past decade .  exports support an estimated 12 million jobs , and those workers ' wages are estimated to pay 13 to 18 percent more on the average than nonexport jobs .  united states exports directly support one in every five manufacturing jobs .  workers in most trade-engaged industries where combined exports and imports amount to at least 40 percent of their domestic industrial output earn an annual compensation package that is one-third more than the average compensation in the least trade-engaged sectors .  a recent university of michigan study shows that lowering remaining global trade barriers by just one-third would boost annual average family income by an additional $ 2 , 500 .  so if you are interested in jobs , vote against this resolution .  if you are interested in the economy and the growth of our economy of this united states , vote against this resolution .  if you want chaos in world trade , vote for it , because that would exactly be what we would have .  we would have total chaos .  it would be the wild , wild west .  i think that the only responsible vote here today for the american worker and the american economy is to vote no on this resolution .  june 8 , 2005 .  to representative bill thomas : as you prepare for your initial consideration of the central american free trade agreement ( cafta ) with the nations of central america and the dominican republic , i want to express my strong support for this progressive move .  from a trade perspective , this will help both the united states and central america .  some 80 percent of central america 's exports to the u.s. are already duty free , so they will be opening their markets to u.s. exports more than we will for their remaining products .  independent studies indicate that u.s. incomes will rise by over $ 15 billion and those in central america by some $ 5 billion .  new jobs will be created in central america , and labor standards are likely to improve as a result of cafta .  some improvements could be made in the trade bill , particularly on the labor protection side , but , more importantly our own national security and hemispheric influence will be enhanced with improved stability , democracy , and development in our poor , fragile neighbors in central america and the caribbean .  during my presidency and now at the carter center , i have been dedicated to the promotion of democracy and stability in the region .  from the negotiation of the panama canal treaties and the championing of human rights at the time when the region suffered under military dictatorships to the monitoring of a number of free elections in the region , central america has been a major focus of my attention .  there now are democratically elected governments in each of the countries covered by cafta .  in negotiating this agreement , the president of each of the six nations had to content with their own companies that fear competition with u.s. firms .  they have put their credibility on the line , not only with this trade agreement but more broadly by promoting market reforms that have been urged for decades by u.s. presidents of both parties .  if the u.s. congress were to turn its back on cafta , it would undercut these fragile democracies , compel them to retreat to protectionism , and make it harder for them to cooperate with the u.s. for the first time ever , we have a chance to reinforce democracies in the region .  this is the moment to move forward and to help those leaders that want to modernize and humanize their countries .  moreover , strong economies in the region are the best antidote to illegal immigration from the region .  in appreciate your consideration of my views and hope they will be helpful in your important deliberations .  sincerley , mr. speaker , i thank the gentleman from florida ( mr. shaw )  on that clarification , because i find it kind of ironic , the fact that we are on a fundamental question , should the united states continue to belong to the world trade organization or not , complaining about degrees of differences in various pieces of trade legislation .  that is , in fact , how we got here in the first place .  prior to world war ii , in fact , many historians argue the reason we got into the great depression as deeply as we did is because the united states chose to throw up significant tariffs and barriers to commercial interaction among nations .  following world war ii , there was an agreement that we should not do that again ; and we created a rather imperfect agreement called the general agreement on tariffs and trade .  it was as good as we could get at the time .  as we continued to operate under the general agreement on tariffs and trade , with so-called rounds named after various cities , which has become a tradition now , the uruguay round , the tokyo round , the rome round , we decided that we need to move to another level , a higher level of integration and coordination ; and that became the world trade organization .  the united states was somewhat frustrated , one , in our dispute resolution mechanism , and the problem was we were winning with no substantive result in those disputes .  we thought we needed a better dispute resolution mechanism .  marginally , the one we have today , i believe is better .  is it good ?  not yet .  as the gentleman from michigan ( mr. levin )  indicated , i think there needs to be a much higher degree of transparency , especially on the resources used to research decisions .  that will be an ongoing point of discussion .  but what is good primarily i think for the united states and the world trade organization restructure from the general agreement on tariffs and trade is that agriculture became one of the points of discussion and importantly for the u.s. services and financial instruments and in the protection of intellectual property rights .  those were critical .  these were , in essence , new additions ; and we are continuing to try to expand those areas that countries sit down and discuss under a structure .  the decision today is , should that imperfect structure remain and we continue to work toward a better structure or should we simply withdraw ?  that really is not a difficult decision for most members ; and , overwhelmingly , we will agree to stay in the world trade organization when we vote on this particular measure .  but what you are hearing primarily are complaints and concerns that we have about the ongoing world trade relationship ; and , heaven knows , i can wheel out all of my arguments as well .  but , as correctly pointed out by the gentleman from florida ( mr. shaw )  , this is narrowly on the wto issue .  but let me just select a couple of areas of trade action by the united states in the last several years .  first of all , under the constitution , all trade-related activity with foreign countries is constitutionally the responsibility of congress .  now how many trade agreements do you think we would reach if we went to a country and said , come on in , negotiate with the house and the senate , wait until we go through a conference committee in deciding what that agreement is going to be , and you ought to agree ahead of time before you see the final product ?  now , obviously , that led to a desire to restain the responsibility but provide the administration the ability to do the negotiating nation to nation .  we are currently under the trade promotion authority structure .  can you imagine the world trade organization where every country has a veto , you can only to things by unanimous agreement , and how rapidly you can advance concerns that you have when the primary criteria is unanimity ?  so one of the reasons we continue to use bilateral country-to-country relationships and regional agreements , in part , so that we do not get bogged down by waiting for the wto , but also to a certain extent , since we believe in transparency , since this country is the most open large country of trade , import , export , of any in the world , that open markets all over the world are good .  so when you examine a bilateral agreement , for example , like the united states and singapore , singapore obviously is not too worried about agricultural product protection .  they are worried about intellectual property rights .  they are worried about services .  we were able to enter into an agreement with singapore , the united states and singapore , to set a mark for other countries on what is the best way to deal with those particular concerns ; and that is down now as an agreement which we can point to as a model that we should move forward on dealing with other countries .  a regional agreement would be the central american free trade agreement , and what is left out of the discussion with cafta are just a couple of points i would like to mention .  one , before we decided to deal with the region , we told those countries , initially the five central american countries , they had to deal with each other .  that el salvador , guatemala , honduras , et cetera , all had to come together as a region , which , first of all , is fundamentally significant .  they are not looking at themselves as individuals .  the final question was an individual one , but they looked at themselves as a region .  once they did that , we then entered into trade negotiations with them .  you need to know something about those trade relations .  they were not driven by the central american countries ' desire to get into the u.s. marketplace .  normally , we can say an opportunity to get into the u.s. marketplace is a pretty good club in which we can get them to agree to various things we want them to agree to .  obviously , it is voluntary on both sides , but the incentive of getting into the u.s. market is a terrific reason to push the agreement probably farther than they would want , because the reward is getting into the u.s. market .  not the case in central america .  we gave away the u.s. market for security , humanitarian reasons .  their products come into the united states tariff free already .  if there is no cafta , their products still come into the u.s. market virtually tariff free .  basically , what we are trying to do is open up the central american market to u.s. goods and services where they have high tariffs .  and when you negotiate freely , one of the things you can not do is dictate to other people what it is that they are going to do internally in their country .  you can set standards , you can cajole , you can create a mutual growth structure , you can bring money to the table to assist them in moving forward .  that is basically what the united states does with the rest of the world on bilateral and regional agreements .  and the cafta agreement is good for the united states in terms of the economics of getting into the central american marketplace so that we have a little more of a level playing field with other countries around the world .  but it also is a chance for these fledgling and growing democracies to have the input of knowledge , training , and financial assistance in growing their responsible labor structure as well .  most of this is tinted with `` protect america '' as the argument .  america does not really need protection .  america needs the opening of markets around the world in voluntary structures whether they be bilateral , regional , or multinational , as the wto is .  there will always be resistance .  china coming into the wto was a good thing .  are we having difficulties with them ?  yes .  will they continue to have difficulties with themselves as they advance as the world 's largest nation ?  yes .  but those discussions occur under a framework which over time has gotten better and will get better , especially with the united states leadership .  for the united states to walk away unilaterally from what is the best historical example of nations dealing economically in a meaningful and useful way makes no sense whatsoever .  and that is why overwhelmingly the vote today will be `` no '' on withdrawing from the wto .  does that resolve any of the ongoing difficulties we have in terms of our perception of the world , how fair the world is , how open markets in the world are , what instruments we need to use to try to push a more transparent and open marketplace , between countries , among countries , and in fact in all trading nations of the world ?  of course not .  all of those issues will continue to be before us , but they will be before us in a structure which allows us to measure , allows us to judge , and most importantly allows us to change as the key competitive component between nations of the world today and tomorrow will be the question of trade .  and ordered and structured competition is to the advantage of the united states .  and that is why overwhelmingly you will see support staying in the wto , nurturing and growing the wto , notwithstanding the fact that we have a whole lot of concerns about a whole lot of issues .  madam speaker , by direction of the committee on rules , i call up house resolution 319 and ask for its immediate consideration .  mr. speaker , i appreciate the kindness and flexibility of my good friend from florida .  mr. speaker , i yield myself the balance of my time .  mr. speaker , i appreciate the opportunity for having had a very quality debate here today .  it is interesting to note once again that the ranking member and the chairman have said the need for reform is obvious .  there is no disagreement on that point .  it is seemingly the mechanism of doing that .  once again i point out that in 1985 , 1994 and 1999 , this house set precedent by doing the exact same concept that is there .  and it is true that maybe i have heard a new concept here that i do not need to make all ten commandments to get to heaven , but i also know that when i was in my classroom and i put high standards and high expectations , my kids met those standards ; and if i wavered , then they wavered at the same time .  this is a good piece of legislation .  it is an excellent rule , and i urge its adoption and passage of the underlying legislation .  mr. speaker , i yield back the balance of my time , and i move the previous question on the resolution .  the previous question was ordered .  the resolution was agreed to .  a motion to reconsider was laid on the table .  mr. speaker , i thank my friend for yielding and also for the cooperation of those on the appropriations bills this week as we move to an early conclusion of this week 's work .  next monday , the house will convene at 12 : 30 p.m .  for morning hour and 2 p.m .  for legislative business .  we will consider several measures under suspension of the rules .  a final list of those bills will be sent to members ' office by the end of this week .  any votes called on those measures that members are given notice of will be rolled until 6 : 30 p.m .  on monday .  on tuesday and the balance of the week , the house will consider several bills under a rule .  first of all , the science and departments of commerce , state and justice appropriation act for fiscal year 2006 .  following that , the department of defense appropriations act for fiscal year 2006 ; and then , finally , h.r. 2745 , the united nations reform act .  certainly based on the experience we have had for the last three fridays , the cooperation of both the ranking member and the leadership of the chairman and the subcommittee chairmen on the appropriations committee , we have been seeing this work go a little faster than we had anticipated .  that could happen again next friday .  the experience again of the last three fridays would lead one to believe that , but next week we will adopt the same approach .  we will get this work done early if we can but would advise members to plan to be here on friday because we will want to complete the entire agenda that we have laid out for next week 's schedule .  mr. speaker , i believe we will do those in the order that they appeared starting on tuesday .  so i would expect tuesday 's work to include the science , commerce , state , justice appropriations act , and then move on to defense appropriations on wednesday if we are completed with the previous bill , and then to bring the bill to the floor on united nations reform after that .  i would say , in response , that , interestingly , the discussion on that bill , it is an important discussion , is largely between the new director of national intelligence and the armed services chairman because of some commitments that seemed to have been made and i think were made during the adoption of the 9/11 bill of things that would be included in this bill .  that discussion is going on .  we are going to work hard to do everything we can to facilitate a final and complete understanding between the administration and the house on the issues that they are discussing right now .  it involves military intelligence and some commitments and discussions that were conducted last year before we moved forward with what was called at that time the 9/11 bill that created the national intelligence director 's job and did a number of other things to achieve those goals that the whip just mentioned in terms of securing our country in every way that we can .  mr. speaker , if i could comment , i would say that we are eager to reach a final understanding on this .  but , also , we are eager to be sure that whatever commitments were made and were reached between the administration and the chairman of a significant committee in the house are fully understood and fully complied with .  you know , there can be misunderstandings in these kind of discussions , certainly , but we want to be sure that any commitments made by the administration to the congress and the chairman of its significant committees are fulfilled and , if there are misunderstandings , to be sure that those misunderstandings are worked out before we move forward .  i assure the gentleman that we will be encouraging in that discussion and facilitating it in every way that we can so that it moves forward at the quickest possible time .  i do not know what their position on that is .  again , i am most concerned that we be sure that we understood our positions when commitments were made when that bill was passed that created the national intelligence director 's position .  i would say it would be hard to be more disappointed than i am that this committee has only met once because of continuing concerns .  from the point of view of the majority , i am sure it is our view that we removed what we thought were the obstacles of this committee moving forward with its work , only to find that there is another obstacle .  and we do need this committee to work , but all sides need to be looking for ways to make the committee work , not to just find the reasons that the committee does not work , which is my view of this .  and we clearly want this committee to work , need this committee to work , and i think the majority has made substantial efforts both publicly and privately to create an opportunity where this committee could do its job .  i appreciate what the whip has said and would only say that we could vote on this and solve it that way , but i assume that would not present the right solution as well .  mr. chairman , i rise today in strong support and appreciation really of both of our leaders on this bill , the gentleman from california ( mr. lantos )  , and i am particularly pleased to see this bill named in appreciation and recognition of the great leadership of our committee on international relations chairman , the gentleman from illinois ( mr. hyde )  .  i think we all know on both sides of the aisle that the united nations has not lived up to its expectations .  it unfortunately has come way too close to mirroring the ineffective activities of the organization it replaced , the league of nations .  this year , the u.n. 's budget increased to $ 1.8 billion .  of that $ 1.8 billion , we pay a substantial part of the cost of the u.n .  these reforms are necessary .  moving the programs that this bill suggests be moved to voluntary programs only increases the willingness of people to support those programs , the transparency of those programs .  i strongly urge support for this bill .  i strongly urge support for the penalties that it contains .  i appreciate my friend , the gentleman from illinois ( mr. hyde )  , and also our great ranking member of this committee , the gentleman from california ( mr. lantos )  .  mr. speaker , first of all , let me echo what has been said about the gentleman from illinois ( mr. hyde )  .  there has never been a finer member of congress in the history of the republic than the gentleman from illinois .  he was one of the most eloquent speakers i have ever known in this house .  we really appreciate all his hard work on this bill .  now , let me say to my friend from massachusetts , i have been listening to this stuff for 20 years .  you can not do anything to put pressure on the united nations , because if you do , the whole world is going to hate us .  the sky is going to fall , henny penny .  the state department has been working with the united nations for the last 20 years that i have been here and working on the foreign affairs committee , international relations now .  the problems still exist .  the only difference is , it is worse now than it has ever been .  we have got to do something about it .  mr. bolton needs to be confirmed on the other side because we need a tough guy over there to force the issue .  we have got an oil-for-food scandal that is growing daily .  kofi annan , the head of the united nations , the secretary-general , said , oh , i did n't have anything to do with it .  we now are finding memos where he talked to the people in the oil industry saying that he would give them unqualified support .  a few months ago , he said , oh , i never did that , and he said he would never resign under any circumstances .  now he is hedging his bets on that because the case against him and the oil-for-food scandal is growing and growing and growing .  he is the head man over there .  on his watch , everything has been going haywire .  we have got u.n .  peacekeeping forces raping women and kids , and nothing has been done about that .  we have got all kinds of problems over there and something must be done .  how do you do that ?  we say , well , let 's follow the same course we have been following for the last 20 years .  the state department says , my gosh , we 'll go over there and we 'll do something about it .  i have high regard for condoleezza rice .  i think she is a dynamite lady and going to do a dynamite job .  but this body needs to put the hammer by using american taxpayers ' dollars on the u.n .  to clean up that mess over there .  we can not go on day after day , week after week , month after month , year after year letting this thing be completely out of hand .  the gentleman talked about the mitchell and gingrich report .  they said that it is a mess over there .  how do you clean it up ?  you make a change from top to bottom .  how do you do that when the rest of the world or much of the rest of the world says , oh , my gosh , we do n't want the united states dictating to us .  i can understand that .  we are the big guy on the block .  they do not want us dictating to them , and we do not want to dictate to them .  we want to work with them .  but the fact of the matter is they are not listening in many cases and the corruption goes on and on and on , the mismanagement goes on and on and on , and nothing changes .  and the united states keeps pouring in 25 percent , or almost that much , of the funds out of the taxpayers ' pockets in this country for that body .  how do you change it ?  you take out the hammer , and the hammer is the money .  you say to the world body , the united nations , if you do n't clean up that mess , we are going to withhold funds .  and if we withhold funds , you are going to have a big , big problem over there .  mr. speaker , the gentleman from california ( mr. lantos )  is one of my dearest friends in this place and the gentleman from massachusetts is not a bad friend , either .  we have traveled together .  i have high regard for him , even though he is wrong a lot of the time .  but i just want to say , something has to be done .  there must be something in the water in massachusetts .  i do not know .  but something has to be done .  and what has to be done is we have got to put pressure on the u.n .  and the best way to do it is to say , either you change things over there or we are going to withdraw funds .  mr. chairman , i just want to say to my colleagues this is a very serious debate , and when one starts using terminology like is he trying to gild the lily , he is trying to protect american servicemen from any kind of legal action that might be taken against them .  so let us be serious about it .  mr. chairman , how much time remains ?  reclaiming my time , mr. chairman , i thank the gentleman for his comments .  mr. chairman , i yield myself such time as i may consume .  mr. chairman , i thank the gentleman from california for his leadership and also the gentlewoman from nevada .  but i do want to take this time , mr. chairman , to recognize the extraordinary leadership of the gentleman from illinois ( chairman hyde ) of the committee on international relations .  the gentleman from illinois is truly a man with a backbone of steel and a heart of gold .  he is an icon of this institution ; and i , for one , know i am joined by every member of this house in thanking him for his leadership on this bill and the number of other measures that he has worked on and done such a tremendous job with .  i am proud to be here in support of the henry j. hyde u.n .  reform bill , and i know my colleagues join me in thanking the gentleman from illinois ( chairman hyde ) for all that he does .  in paraphrasing a well-known phrase , i would like to just say , mr. chairman , i sleep better every night knowing that henry hyde is here fighting for america .  mr. chairman , i demand a recorded vote .  mr. chairman , i rise with great respect for both the gentleman from illinois ( mr. hyde )  and the gentleman from california ( mr. lantos )  in this .  while we can all agree that our country , as the biggest contributor to the u.n. , must help the organization become more efficient and effective , the lantos-shays substitute finds a compromise that i think reflects where the majority of americans come down on this issue .  the gingrich-mitchell task force takes serious issue with much of the damaging policies that have occurred at the u.n. , but it refrains from calling for mandatory withholding of dues .  president bush has also signaled his opposition to many of these provisions , which may hinder our ambassador 's dealings with the organization .  under the lantos-shays substitute , we can send the same message to the international community without undermining our efforts to promote democracy and protect those in need .  mr. chairman , i rise in support of the lantos/shays substitute .  chairman hyde has been an indispensable member of this body for many years , and i commend you for bringing this important debate before us .  while i strongly agree with chairman hyde , that serious and fundamental problems exist at the united nations , i prefer the president 's approach of continuing to pursue negotiations for reform through diplomatic means .  regardless of preference for this bill , we can all agree that the u.n .  and the international community should hear our outrage for the mismanagement of what is meant to be an example of unity and peace .  i commend the chairman and the full committee for trying to improve the accountability of those at the u.n .  and hope this debate will trigger reforms in the functioning of this embattled , yet well-meaning organization .  the lantos-shays substitute reflects the significant reforms outlined in the chairman 's bill .  however , it makes an all important distinction in rightly leaving the secretary of state with the discretion to decide when , and if , the ultimatums are a hindrance to our national interests .  alternatively , automatically withholding funds may derail our international and global commitments and could have a devastating impact on poor nations around the world .  while we can all agree that our country , as the biggest contributor to the u.n. , must help the organization become more efficient and effective , the lantos-shays substitute finds a compromise that i think reflects where the majority of americans come down on this issue .  the gingrich-mitchell task force takes serious issue with much of the damaging policies that have occurred at the u.n. , but it refrains from calling for mandatory withholding of dues .  president bush has also signaled his opposition to many of these provisions , which may hinder our ambassador 's dealings with the organization .  under the lantos-shays substitute , we can send the same message to the international community without undermining our efforts to promote democracy and protect those in need .  i thank the gentleman for yielding me this time , madam speaker ; and i rise in strong support of this rule .  i think that the underlying legislation is much needed and long overdue .  i have been working to help reform the united nations since i first came to congress , and i have not found anybody yet that disagrees with the fact that we very , very direly need to reform the united nations .  this once-utopian organization has degenerated into an institution that is largely dysfunctional and on the verge of becoming irrelevant , and that is why we need these reforms and we need them now .  there are a lot of areas that this legislation deals with , whether it is cronyism , corruption , or financial mismanagement .  but i just want to stress one that relates to budgetary reform and the way that people vote on that .  right now , the united states contributes about 22 percent of the general budget of the united nations and 28 percent of the peacekeeping budget .  if you take the last 128 nations that contribute dues , if you put all their dues together , that adds up to less than 1 percent ; yet they have the same vote .  those 128 nations have the same vote as the united states .  in fact , if you take the top three countries , they contribute over half the dues , and yet everybody has the same vote on budgetary matters .  imagine a family , if you will , where the dad goes out and works all year and provides income for his family .  and at the time to decide how to spend it , the four kids get up and say , this is what we want to do , this is where we want to go on our vacation , this is what hotel we want to stay in .  well , that is the way the united nations works , and that is why we need the henry hyde u.n .  reform act we are considering today .  one of the reforms in this act would say that when you vote on budgetary matters , then you weight those votes .  that would do two things : number one , it would mean that the countries that contribute the most money would have more leverage in making sure that the money gets spent where it is supposed to be spent and in making sure that they get the results they want to get .  and it also would encourage some of the other countries to contribute more money to the dues of the united nations .  one of the areas we often hear criticized is this area of cronyism .  it is unbelievable , but the united nations , if you count the full-time and the contract employees , they have over 43 , 000 employees .  to put that in perspective , a lot of multibillion dollar corporations do not have that many employees .  ebay , people have heard of that , is a company worth $ 52 billion , and the united nations has five times as many employees as they have .  anheiser busch , which makes and sells beer around the world , the u.n .  has a third more employees than they have .  so i think it is time that we got a handle on how the money that american taxpayers send off to the united nations gets spent , and this haphazard budgetary process can be changed by weighted voting .  there is no doubt in my mind that the time is now for reform at the u.n .  this organization has become a shadow of its former self and likely bears little resemblance to what its founders had envisioned .  amid charges of cronyism , corruption , and financial scandal in recent months , the relevance and reputation of the united nations has deteriorated drastically .  what 's more , the u.n .  appears to engage in anti-american sentiment for sport , promoting it around the globe .  this is a true slap in the face to the united states .  after all , we are going to contribute 22 percent of the u.n. 's general budget and 28 percent of its peacekeeping budget this year .  this means a funding request for fiscal year 2006 of $ 439 million by president bush .  the top 10 contributors of u.n .  dues account for more than 76 percent of all dues paid while the 128 countries with the lowest dues account for less than 1 percent of dues paid .  however , among the 192 member countries , everyone 's vote is worth the same .  imagine this scenario : parents agreeing to fund the family vacation , but allowing the children to dictate where the family goes , what hotel they stay at , and what activities they do .  that 's what is happening at the u.n .  right now and that is why we need to support the hyde bill .  h.r. 2745 calls for weighted voting on budgetary matters .  weighted voting on budgetary matters would give the u.n. 's biggest contributors more leverage to ensure that their money is achieving the purposes for which it is intended .  weighted voting would encourage other countries to increase their contribution to the organization .  the state department said the u.s. paid nearly $ 3.9 billion in contributions to the u.n .  system in 2004 .  and who knows where that money went ?  some of it likely went to fund patronage jobs of which the u.n .  has many .  between full-time employees and contract workers , the u.n .  employs almost 43 , 000 people .  let me put that in perspective : 43 , 000 workers is more than five times more the total employed by ebay , a company worth almost $ 52 billion .  another kicker : total u.n .  employment is nearly one third greater than that of anheuser-busch , another multi-billion dollar company .  as elected officials , we have an obligation to be good stewards of the taxpayers ' money .  it is our responsibility to bring reform to the u.n. 's haphazard budget practices and the henry hyde u.n .  reform act of 2005 is a step toward accomplishing that goal .  the american people deserve nothing less .  madam speaker , i urge adoption of the rule and the underlying bill .  mr. chairman , i first want to thank the gentleman from california ( mr. lantos )  for his longstanding leadership on issues related to the united nations and human freedom .  no one has greater respect for him in this body than i do .  but in this case , mr. chairman , i think and i believe that the lantos substitute just falls a little short .  six decades ago , the united nations was formed to save succeeding generations from the scourge of war ; to reaffirm faith in fundamental human rights , in the dignity and worth of the human person , in the equal rights of men and women and of nations large and small ; and to establish conditions under which justice and respect for the obligations arising from treaties and other sources of international law can be maintained ; and to promote social progress and better standards of life in larger freedom .  these words , from the preamble of the united nations ' historic charter , today hover over that institution not as a symbol of its founding mission , but as a reminder of its abject failure .  far from saving future generations from the scourge of war , the united nations ' history of hand-wringing , appeasement , and moral equivalence has exacerbated the scourge of war .  far from reaffirming faith and fundamental rights and the dignity of the human person , the united nations has overseen the degradation of human rights even of vulnerable human beings in its own care through routine abuses of power , corruption , and even horrific sexual exploitation of peoples at the hands of u.n .  peacekeepers .  far from reaffirming faith in the equal rights of nations large and small , the u.n .  has instead adopted an institutional posture favoring belligerent tyrannies at the expense of freedom-loving democracies , standing with palestinian terrorists against israeli families , standing with saddam hussein against the civilized world , and too often standing with anyone against the united states of america .  far from promoting justice and respect for international law , the united nations has become one of the world 's greatest apologists for tyranny and terror where justice is merely one point of view ; a place where sudan and syria and castro 's cuba are given a soap-box on which to lecture the free world on human rights ; a place where international lawyers scheme to haul american soldiers before a rogue court , irrespective of constitutional rights ; a place where an international humanitarian mission to feed and heal the iraqi people resulted in $ 10 billion in siphoned bribes and kickbacks .  and far from promoting social progress and the better standards of life in larger freedom , the united nations has become a hindrance to both progress and freedom .  just ask the besieged citizens of israel whose every gesture of goodwill has been returned by violence from their enemies and condemnation from the u.n .  diplomatic pretenses aside , mr. chairman , corruption has infected the united nations .  and yet given its organizational structure , how could it be otherwise ?  there is no independent financial oversight .  there are no standards of transparency .  most u.n .  divisions are exempt from democratic accountability .  and most u.n .  leaders are protected from the law by diplomatic immunity .  the rampant corruption that today infects the united nations is not a function of its personnel .  not really .  it is a function of its structure .  that is what we get , mr. chairman , from an organization driven by consensus instead of principle .  and as long as tyrants and terrorists get as much say in policymaking as democratically elected leaders , the u.n .  will continue to betray its charter and betray the billions of people on this planet who look to it for hope .  this substitute essentially agrees with that conclusion .  it just does not do enough about it .  but what more do we need to hear , mr. chairman ?  the u.n. 's corruption is so breathtaking in its scope as to be almost universal : peacekeepers raping women that they are sent to protect ; sexual exploitation of children at the hands of their humanitarian relief workers ; institutional anti-semitism so brazen that yasser arafat was considered a moderate ; $ 10 billion , what further evidence could we possibly need ?  the pervasive corruption at the u.n .  is not a problem ; it is a crisis .  no one denies this .  and in response to the overwhelming evidencing , the democrat substitute says the reforms in the underlying bill should happen .  but , mr. chairman , it is not enough to say that these reforms should happen .  they must happen .  and they must happen right now .  we should not be asking the u.n. 's leaders to make these reforms .  we need to tell them .  the philosophy of flexibility and appeasement create loopholes that diplomats drive huge trucks through .  and if they were serious about giving the administration flexibility , why did they not give it to the president instead of the secretary of state ?  the president leads foreign policy in this country , not the secretary of state .  the american people are today underwriting rampant corruption , 22 percent of it to be precise , and it needs to stop .  today the congress must take this stand and clearly voice not simply our frustration but our expectation of concrete reform .  we must act , mr. chairman .  and as he has so many times in his decades with us , the gentleman from illinois has shown us the way .  the gentleman from illinois ( mr. hyde )  has brought before this house a comprehensive , almost exhaustive , package of reform that , if enacted , will finally bring the united nations under some semblance of control .  if and when these reforms are enacted , mr. chairman , the world will be safer and stronger .  the american people will be assured their money is being well spent , and the united nations charter to prevent wars , protect human rights , and advance the cause of human freedom will be reaffirmed .  and every man , woman , and child on this planet will owe a great debt of gratitude to henry j. hyde .  i just ask my colleagues to vote `` no '' on the democratic substitute .  vote `` yes '' on the hyde reform bill , and let us put the united nations back on track to fulfill its promise to the human race .  i thank the gentleman for yielding .  and i would just like to congratulate him for the emphasis that he has had on the education aspect of this , along with training , as a very important part of our effort here .  he has helped us modify the language in the measure and he represents the navy postgraduate school very , very well .  and we look forward to seeing the success of this program due in large part to his efforts .  madam chairman , may i inquire how much time is remaining ?  mr. chairman , on rollcall no .  274 , i was unavoidably detained .  had i been present , i would have voted `` aye . '' i received it from different locations , actually .  it began , if i may , it began with newspaper reports .  mr. chairman , i yield myself such time as i may consume , and i just want to say that i appreciate both gentlemen 's comments and the information that they conveyed .  madam speaker , i want to respond to my friend from florida that the language that substitutes for debate around here is troublesome .  demagogic , i heard the gentleman say .  immoral , gun-boat diplomacy , contempt for the u.n .  none of those inflammatory terms , in my judgment , apply to this debate .  and i suggest that we can disagree as to the one issue , and that is how to enforce the reforms we all agree are needed , without calling each other names or disparaging our motives .  well , reclaiming my time , madam speaker , i thank the gentleman , but the bush administration is on your side , not mine , this time .  mr. chairman , i yield myself such time as i may consume .  mr. chairman , i would like to announce that i am terribly flattered by the extravagant things that have been said , but i must confess i did not name this bill after myself .  while i deeply appreciate the honor , i am a trifle embarrassed , not thoroughly embarrassed , but a trifle .  mr. chairman , most informed people agree that the u.n .  is in desperate need of reform .  corruption is rampant , as evidenced by the ever-expanding oil-for-food scandal .  u.n .  peacekeepers have sexually abused children in bosnia , the congo , sierra leone and other places ; and the culture of concealment makes rudimentary oversight virtually impossible .  a casual attitude towards conflict-of-interest rules undermines trust in the u.n. 's basic governance .  i could spend many hours reciting a litany of waste , fraud , and abuse that has become intolerable .  so what do we do about it ?  what leverage do we have to bring about change in how this institution operates ?  first of all , we pay 22 percent of the budget .  that is $ 440 million .  we pay 27 percent of the peacekeeping budget .  do not ask me what that is .  you can not find out .  that is a secret .  china pays 2.1 percent , or $ 36.5 million .  russia pays 1.1 percent , or $ 19 million .  over the years , as we listened to the counsels for patience , the u.n. 's failings have grown worse , not lessened .  our many warnings , plans and urgings have largely come and gone , with few lasting accomplishments to mark their presence .  trust in gradual change has been interpreted as indifference , a very expensive indifference .  so the time has finally come when we must in good conscience say `` enough. '' `` enough '' to allowing odious regimes such as cuba , sudan and zimbabwe to masquerade as arbiters of human rights .  `` enough '' to peacekeepers exploiting and abusing the people they were sent to protect .  `` enough '' to unkept promises and squandering the dreams of generations .  very few are opposed to the u.n. 's role in facilitating diplomacy , mediating disputes , monitoring the peace , and feeding the hungry .  but we are opposed to the legendary bureaucratization , to political grandstanding , to billions of dollars spent on multitudes of programs with meager results , to the outright misappropriation of funds represented by the oil-for-food program .  and we rightly bristle at the gratuitous anti-americanism that has become ingrained over decades , even as our checks continue to be regularly cashed .  no observer , be he a passionate supporter of this legislation or dismissive critic , can pretend that the current structure and operations of the u.n .  represent an acceptable standard .  even the u.n .  itself has acknowledged the need for extensive measures and , to its credit , has put forward a number of useful proposals for consideration .  in the united states , the recognition of need for change is widely shared and bipartisan .  republican and democratic administrations alike have long called for a more focused and accountable budget , one that reflects what should be the true priorities of the organization , shorn of duplicative , ineffective , and outdated programs .  members on both sides of the aisle in congress agree that the time has come for far-reaching reform .  i have heard no arguments in favor of maintaining the status quo .  even the opponents of this legislation concede the need for deep change .  the key difference , the all-important difference , between their proposals and the one we have put forward lies in the methods to be used to accomplish that universally desired goal .  we are already experiencing strenuous resistance to change from many sources , both within the u.n .  and without .  but admonishment will not transform sinners into saints ; resolutions of disapproval will not be read ; flexible deadlines and gentle proddings will be ignored .  instead , more persuasive measures are called for .  this legislation brings to bear instruments of leverage sufficient to the task , the most important being tying the u.s. financial contribution to a series of readily understandable benchmarks .  in an effort to derail this legislation , it has been proposed that we hand to the secretary of state the power to selectively withhold funds from the u.n .  as a means of inspiring a cooperative attitude in the organization .  i certainly mean no disrespect for the current secretary , whom i hold in the highest esteem , but the power of the purse belongs to congress and is not delegable , no matter who holds that high office .  we can not escape this burden .  the task we face is an extensive one , and i have no illusions regarding the difficulties and the challenges we face .  but the choice is simple : we can either seek to accomplish concrete improvements , which will require an enforcement mechanism more credible and more decisive than mere wishes , or we can pretend to do so .  for there can be no doubt that any proposal resting upon discretionary decisions concedes in advance that any reform will be fragmentary at best , if there is any at all .  we are in a peculiar situation .  opponents of change cloak themselves in the robes of defenders of the u.n. , when it is in fact they who would condemn it to irrelevance .  those of us who believe the u.n .  can yet reclaim its mission and assume the role foreseen by the vision of its founders have no choice but to take up this task of u.n .  reform .  yes , this is radical surgery .  sometimes it is the only way to save the patient .  mr. chairman , i reserve the balance of my time .  mr. chairman , i yield myself such time as i may consume .  i just want to respond to my dear friend , and he is my dear friend .  if i ever become president of the united states , i would nominate the gentleman from california ( mr. lantos )  as my secretary of state and be guided by his advice .  mr. chairman , that is what i think of the gentleman from california ( mr. lantos )  .  mr. chairman , i just want to point out that substantial compliance is accorded to the secretary of state , so if 38 of the 39 are complied with , the 39th could have been substantially complied with and suffice .  mr. chairman , i ask unanimous consent that i be allowed to claim the time in opposition .  mr. chairman , the gentleman from california ( mr. lantos )  has just administered the perfumed icepick .  mr. chairman , i yield myself such time as i may consume .  i would like to state improvement is our goal , too .  a healthy u.n. , rather than a vast , sprawling , bureaucratic cesspool which is where it is headed .  everyone agrees to that .  now this notion that we are obliged by the treaty to pay our dues and that it would be an international default if we did not , that was argued before back in the 1980s .  contributions to the u.n .  are made subject to authorization and appropriation of the u.s. congress .  we have a duty to the taxpayer first to ensure that there is good stewardship of their dollars .  we have to hold the u.n .  accountable .  all countries benefit from an efficient , transparent , and accountable u.n .  it is not only in our interest .  we have not signed away part of our sovereignty .  we are paying big dues : $ 442 million a year just on the dues part .  peacekeeping is another $ 1 billion .  to say we do not have an obligation to make the providers that we purchase with our dues perform honorably and efficiently does not make sense .  madam chairman , i just want to say to my good friend that it is not on automatic pilot .  there are 3 years over which there is time to comply , the u.n .  can comply .  so that is a pretty slow automatic .  mr. chairman , how much time do i have remaining ?  mr. chairman , i demand a recorded vote .  mr. chairman , i thank the chairman .  mr. chairman , reclaiming my time , i would agree with the gentleman .  in my remarks , i particularly did not direct my remarks to the secretary general , and , in fact , the remarks are directed to our ambassador to the united nations , that in the future he continue that policy .  mr. chairman , i demand a recorded vote .  mr. chairman , i thank the gentleman for yielding to me .  this is extremely well-crafted legislation that the chairman has brought forward in close cooperation with many of his colleagues on the committee on international relations , and i am in very strong support of this bill .  there is language in section 4 which calls for a uniform code of conduct , which i think is a very excellent idea .  we want to be very certain that as this legislation goes forward , it in no way can be misinterpreted to impinge upon the uniform code of military justice or the american servicemembers ' protection act .  we are trying to avoid any confusion here and make sure that our men and women who are going to work in united nations peacekeeping operations and go around the world are in no way compromised .  mr. chairman , we are trying to make sure that there is no possibility for misinterpretation as we bring forward this very important new legislation , and that it can in no way subject the american armed forces or any other american personnel , for that matter , to foreign tribunals or the international criminal court .  mr. chairman , i thank the gentleman for yielding to me .  i just want to be very brief .  mr. chairman , i yield myself such time as i may consume , and i thank the gentleman from indiana for his comments .  i want to be very clear that i am in strong support of this legislation that has come forward by the committee on international relations , but there are things that raise my interest and my concern .  a few weeks ago media outlets throughout the world proudly parroted amnesty international 's unfounded charges of torture and ill treatment in the so-called america `` gulags. '' instead of condemning the government-inflicted famine in kim jong-il 's north korea or continued human rights abuses in castro 's cuba , the executive director of amnesty international usa revealed the true goal of organizations such as his when he called on foreign governments to arrest and prosecute u.s. government officials and military personnel .  we want to make sure that we have got language in here that would prevent that .  the belgian experience , for example , and recent propaganda espoused by amnesty international shows that we were wise to doubt the merchants who were peddling `` universal jurisdiction '' at the cost of national sovereignty .  indeed , even president clinton did not send the rome statute establishing the international criminal court to the u.s. senate because of its fundamental flaws .  the united states is a nation dedicated to justice and the rule of law , and we can not allow these fundamental protections to be stripped from our servicemen and women performing peacekeeping missions , and i think we in this body need to be ever vigilant to ensure that that does not happen .  mr. chairman , as so ably demonstrated by the gentlemen from california ( mr. lantos  and mr. rohrabacher ) , the u.n .  is crying out for reform .  but let us not forget that the only oath we as members take is to the constitution and votes should reflect this obligation , not pique , not ideology , not well-intentioned concern for reform .  unfortunately , the approach contained in the bill before us contravenes the united nations charter and undercuts the rule of law .  it also misreads the constitutional prerogatives of congress .  it is true that under article 1 we have been given purse-string authority .  it is not true that we have been provided the power to negotiate .  that authority resides with the executive branch .  there has been a suggestion made that only by threatening the withholding of resources can progress be made at the u.n .  this assertion at first blush sounds like commonsense realism .  but counterintuitively to utterers of this precept , historical experience reveals that prior u.s. withholding tactics have frequently embarrassed the united states and weakened , rather than strengthened , our diplomatic positions .  nobody likes to be threatened , especially when threats represent breaches of the law of nations .  it is no accident that the bush administration has voiced opposition to this bill and warned that unilaterally backing out of our financial obligations will undermine our credibility and effectiveness at the u.n .  one obvious issue , especially for my republican colleagues , is whether deference to the judgment of house leadership in matters of multilateral diplomacy is more compelling than deference to the president .  but this quandary is secondary to the issue of the rule of law .  the fundamental choice today is between deference to the law or to sovereign impunity .  any sense of history would suggest that now is not the time to denigrate law .  the passions of men , no matter how understandable must be constrained by law if there is any hope for a more peaceful and just world .  accordingly , i intend to vote for the principal substitute to the committee bill , but against either the committee bill or the substitute on final passage .  the former represents a congressional directive that in all likelihood will require the u.s. to declare financial war on the united nations .  the alternative approach , while more restrained , has the effect of authorizing the executive branch to conduct a financial war on the u.n .  should the secretary of state choose to do so .  both presumptuously imply that the united states is free of an international obligation to pay its assessment .  this body would be wiser to abide by the rule of law and fidelity to the constitution , not the politics of the moment .  finally , mr. speaker , it is at times like this i am reminded of the warning of the english philosopher , john locke , who once suggested that little is more dangerous than a good prince , because that prince is so respected it is hard to object when he may be wrong .  henry hyde is not just a good prince , he is a great one .  but i fear in this instance he may be wrong , and i would suggest to my colleagues that the most appropriate way to show our esteem is through respectful dissent to the finest in our midst .  mr. chairman .  at the outset , let me express my appreciation to chairman hyde and his staff for reaching out to consult with me as this legislation was developed .  although we have differing perspectives on this bill , i have the utmost respect for our distinguished chairman , as well as his staff , who are among the finest on capitol hill .  the committee has done a quality job in assembling a panoply of united nations reform proposals .  virtually all of the suggestions are compelling .  the problem is the framework of their consideration .  unfortunately , in my judgment , the underlying committee approach is thoroughly inappropriate .  the democratic substitute is better , but is inappropriate as well .  all of us have pique of one kind or another about the u.n .  as a supporter of the principles that underlie the founding of the united nations , i must confess to profound disappointment in the conflicts of interest that developed in the oil-for-food program .  bizarrely , according to a federal indictment made public earlier this spring , a south korean named tongsun park appears to be at the center point of one set of iraqi oil transfers in which as a middleman he may have used part of his commissions to influence several u.n .  officials .  what is astonishingly `` dja 2 vu '' about these charges is that tongsun park had been indicted on bribery and conspiracy charges in the late 1970s for using his role as a rice agent for the u.s. food for peace program to bestow money and gifts on members of congress who had legislated the guidelines that allowed commissions on those agricultural sales .  the involvement of tongsun park in the iraqi oil-for-food scandal may be a footnote to the abuses that developed but it symbolically underscores the urgent need for reform , accountability and transparency in u.n .  endeavors .  ironically , the oil-for-food program was authorized by the security council with u.s. support and every contract had to be approved by the government of the united states .  it appears that proceeds from some of these contracts may have benefited influential individuals and institutions in various countries , including russia and france , and thus had the effect of providing financial incentives for people in key foreign countries to oppose the policy perspectives of the united states .  it also appears that conflicts of interest may have been precipitated with a small number of u.n .  employees .  perspective is difficult to bring to issues of the day , but with regard to the oil-for-food program , it is apparent that the international system is vulnerable to corruption .  it may be that relative to the multi-billion-dollar size of the program , the conflicts in new york may to some seem paltry .  but it should be clear that a few thousand here and a few thousand there add up to a loss of confidence in institutions of governance .  bureaucratic waste and ineptitude are a challenge to any large organization , but of all institutions the u.n .  should be the one most sensitive in the world to the problem of the `` two c 's : '' corruption and conflicts of interest .  the united nations was created to promote the rule of law among and within nations .  it was expected to be an honest and implacably neutral broker to help settle international disputes and advance international law in areas as diverse as arms control , trade , human rights , and the environment .  in all these activities , political differences were to be expected , but integrity of purpose and deed was to be the u.n. 's hallmark .  but tragically , no institution can fulfill its mission if its programs are subverted or its representatives conduct themselves in ways that are not respectful of the law .  corruption is the bitterest breach of trust , especially for the u.n. , which in so many parts of the world represents the aspirations of people who live in desperate poverty and fear .  in this regard , in december 2004 , congress directed the united states institute of peace to establish a task force on the united nations .  the 12-member bipartisan task force , chaired by former house speaker newt gingrich and former senate majority leader george mitchell , worked with leading public policy organizations to assess reforms that would enable the u.n .  to better meet the goals of its 1945 charter and offer the u.s. government an actionable agenda to strengthen the u.n .  the report recommends establishing a chief operating officer to be in charge of daily u.n .  operations ; empowering the secretary general to replace his or her top officials ; and creating an independent oversight board with adequate audit powers to prevent another scandal like oil-for-food .  in addition , the report suggests abolishing the current u.n .  human rights commission and establishing a new human rights council , ideally to be composed of democratic governments committed to monitoring , promoting , and enforcing human rights .  over the years , there have been many reports advocating u.n .  reform .  by background , in the early 1990 's i co-chaired the united states commission on improving the effectiveness of the united nations .  the commission held six hearings in regional centers across the country , receiving testimony from hundreds of witnesses representing a cross-section of philosophical perspectives .  the report the commission put forth underlined a certain degree of optimism that the u.n .  could play a constructive role in world affairs , but explicitly recognized `` serious management problems '' and lack of adequate financial accountability in the u.n .  system , and called for the u.n .  to establish a fully independent inspector general 's office .  with respect to political and security issues , the commission , like the gingrich-mitchell commission , recognized that means must be found to make the security council more representative of power balances in the world today ; accordingly , it recommended the expansion of permanent membership of the security council .  i introduced a bill to this effect yesterday , house resolution 321 , and am hopeful it will receive serious committee and house review at a later date .  also like the gingrich-mitchell commission , the u.s. commission on improving the effectiveness of the united nations recommended the establishment of a u.n .  rapid reaction force to prevent acts of genocide and crimes against humanity .  arguably , these last recommendations -- expansion of the security council and establishment of a u.n .  rapid deployment force -- are the two most important reform proposals the u.n .  is considering today .  the reform bill before us today is silent on each .  while both the gingrich-mitchell commission and the earlier u.n .  commission highlighted severe management concerns , neither advocated linking progress on u.n .  reform to u.s. payment of dues to the organization .  indeed , eight former u.s. ambassadors to the united nations -- madeleine albright , john danforth , richard holbrooke , jeane kirkpatrick , donald mchenry , thomas pickering , bill richardson and andrew young -- urged congress earlier this week to reject legislation that would withhold payments to the world body unless specific reform plans were enacted .  here , we must understand precisely what the meaning of a 50 percent cut in u.s. contributions to the u.n. , as envisioned in the bill before us , implies .  as the country in the world that most stands for the rule of law , we are proposing to circumvent it .  the committee approach represents a congressional directive that in all likelihood will require the u.s. to declare financial war on the united nations .  the alternative democratic approach , while more restrained , has the effect of authorizing the executive branch to conduct a financial war on the u.n .  should the secretary of state choose to do so .  both approaches contravene the u.n .  charter , a treaty binding all parties , including the united states .  it specifies : `` the expenses of the organization shall be borne by the members as apportioned by the general assembly '' ( article 17 ( 2 ) ) .  in 1962 , the international court of justice held -- sustaining the position of the united states -- that apportionment of expenses by the general assembly creates the obligation of each member to bear that part of the expenses apportioned to it .  both efforts , the first boldly , the second with an extra executive branch hurdle , presumptuously imply that the united states is free of an international obligation to pay its assessments .  this position runs counter to elemental principles of international law .  the vienna convention on the law of treaties provides that : `` every treaty in force is binding upon the parties to it and must be performed by them in good faith '' ( article 26 ) .  it specifies that : `` a state party to a treaty may not invoke the provisions of internal law as justification for its failure to perform the treaty '' ( article 21 ( 1 ) ) .  the only oath we as members take is to the constitution .  votes should reflect this obligation , not pique , not ideology , not well-intentioned concern for reform .  the bill before us undercuts the rule of law .  it also misreads the constitutional prerogative of congress .  it is true under article i that we have been given purse string authority .  it is not true that we have been provided the power to negotiate .  that authority resides with the executive branch .  the legislation before us eviscerates the separation of powers that our founders so thoughtfully constructed .  the democratic alternative represents a credible political , but uncompelling legal balancing .  the wiser way to go is to take the group of reform ideas assembled in the committee bill , many of which , by the way have been derived from recommendations of various u.n .  initiated panels , and simply direct the executive to use its authority to seek to advance them in a way only it can .  there has been a suggestion made that only by threatening the withholding of resources can progress at the u.n .  be made .  this assertion at first blush sounds like common-sense realism .  but counter-intuitively to utterers of this precept , historical experience reveals that prior u.s. withholding tactics have frequently embarrassed the u.s. and weakened rather than strengthened u.s. diplomatic positions .  nobody likes to be threatened , especially when threats represent breaches of the law of nations .  this bill , while frustratingly reflective of many legitimate sentiments , will almost certainly prove counterproductive .  while it contains good ideas that many in the u.n .  community support , the coercive methodology implicit in the threat of withholding legally obligated resources will jeopardize rather than advance prospects for reform .  it is no accident that the bush administration has voiced opposition to this bill and warned that unilaterally backing out of our financial obligations will undermine our credibility and effectiveness at the u.n .  we may be the greatest democracy in history but in a world where u.s. leadership has for so many lost its luster , good policy is far likelier to precipitate constructive results than big economic threats .  one obvious issue , especially for my republican colleagues , is whether on matters of multilateral diplomacy deference to the judgment of house leadership is more compelling than deference to the president .  but this quandary is secondary to the issue of the rule of law .  the fundamental choice today is between deference to the law or to sovereign impunity .  any sense of history would suggest that now is not the time to denigrate law .  the passions of men , no matter how understandable , must be constrained by law , if there is any hope for a more peaceful and just world .  accordingly , i intend to vote for the principal substitute to the committee bill , but against either the committee or the substitute on final passage .  it is the rule of law and fidelity to the constitution , not the politics of the moment that should guide our consideration of this bill .  mr. chairman , let me say i may consider the lantos-shays alternative imperfect , but it represents a credible political balancing and is clearly preferable to the underlying bill .  but listening to the debate over the past 2 days , i sense a lack of perspective not only for treaty obligations but for the u.n .  itself .  corruption exists in all societies .  it is rife , indeed endemic , in some .  at the u.n. , it is isolated ; it is not endemic .  i have known hundreds and hundreds of people who have worked for the u.n .  itself or u.n .  agencies .  they are honorable , decent people doing a decent job .  it is true that a few thousand dollars here and a few thousand dollars there pretty soon adds up to a loss of confidence in institutions of governance , and we have that problem at the u.n .  hence , we can not ignore scandal , but scandal does not define the united nations ; it defines a problem that must be dealt with there and elsewhere .  we should do this , but we should do this with the understanding that the world would be a far worse place without the u.n .  and that the activities and actions of its various organizations and agencies have made this a better world society .  so improvement , not destruction , is the goal .  mr. chairman , i yield myself such time as i may consume and would like to thank the distinguished minority ranking member , the chairman of our committee , and everyone who is engaged in this debate .  it has been an honor to work on this issue with them .  it has been an honor to learn from them .  and more importantly , it has been an honor to see the example they set and to set a bar for others in this institution to emulate their integrity .  mr. chairman , i rise in strong support of the provisions in this bill that address the unwillingness of mexico to extradite violent criminals back to the united states for prosecution .  i want to be sure all of my colleagues are aware that we share our southern border with a country that willingly harbors criminals : rapists , robbers , and murderers .  since 2001 , mexico has become a fugitive paradise where people accused of heinous crimes in the united states can escape from american justice .  i would like to share one of these stories with members today .  in 2002 , deputy david march , a 7-year veteran of the los angeles sheriff 's department , was brutally shot while performing a routine traffic stop at 10 : 30 in the morning .  the suspect , armando garcia , fled to mexico to avoid prosecution .  garcia was an illegal alien who disregarded our nation 's immigration laws when coming to california from mexico .  once in the united states , he continued his life as a criminal plaguing our streets with drugs and engaging in other criminal activities , including two attempted murders .  while he had already been deported three times , garcia again ignored our nation 's laws and illegally entered the united states a fourth time .  this time , he brutally murdered a police officer who was merely stopping him for a routine traffic violation .  garcia killed deputy march by shooting him execution style in the side of his chest where the bulletproof vest did not cover , and in the head .  now this monster , who has demonstrated a total disregard for the laws of our country over and over again , walks free in mexico .  even worse , his blatant contempt for our laws is being implicitly sanctioned by the mexican government which is protecting him from prosecution for his heinous crimes .  mexican officials have refused to extradite garcia because he could face the death penalty or life in prison for murdering deputy david march .  let us be clear , the mexican government is harboring a cop killer .  every day law enforcement officers nobly protect our friends , neighbors , and families from crime .  they work to improve the quality of life for all of us .  sometimes they pay the ultimate sacrifice .  for that , they and their families deserve our sincere appreciation and utmost respect .  for 7 years , deputy march dedicated his life to the pursuit of justice and to the protection of our communities .  we must honor the sacrifice that he and his family paid for our safety by pursuing justice for his senseless murder .  i have met deputy march 's family .  to see the pain and anger in their faces , knowing their son 's killer is roaming free across our southern border , is heart-breaking .  we can not sit silently while mexico becomes a criminal black hole for murderers seeking to escape from justice .  we must learn from deputy march 's murderer .  if another country is unwilling to respect america 's laws , its citizens will also disregard our rule of law when they cross over our borders .  i commend the gentleman from illinois ( mr. hyde )  for including a provision in this bill to urge the mexican government to reconsider its faulty extradition policy , and i hope my colleagues will support this and other legislative efforts to ensure that mexico respects the laws of the united states .  mr. speaker , i demand a recorded vote .  mr. speaker , i thank the gentleman for yielding me this time .  i am a proud original cosponsor of the henry j. hyde u.n .  reform act , and i rise today in support of the rule and with a profound sense of gratitude for the leadership that my mentor and friend , henry j. hyde of illinois , has provided on this bill and throughout an illustrious career in this congress .  i also want to commend for what i know will be a vigorous debate that has already begun the gentleman from california one of the extraordinary things about this debate as it unfolds before the american people , mr. speaker , is the degree of agreement between the two men that i just mentioned .  it is a rare piece of legislation indeed where there is so much agreement about the goals .  but i believe what will become apparent to any observer of this debate is that we are not so much arguing over the ends as the means , and that is a legitimate argument that will be , i believe , a great service to the country .  the united nations is desperately in need of fundamental reform , and the henry j. hyde u.n .  reform act does just that .  in 1994 , staffers at unicef 's kenya office defrauded and squandered up to $ 10 million by some estimates .  in the congo last year , u.n .  peacekeepers and civilian personnel stand accused of widespread sexual exploitation .  and we all know of the $ 10 billion oil-for-food scandal .  both sides agree it is time for reform in the wake of years of mismanagement and outright scandal .  but i submit humbly that it is time for u.n .  reform with teeth , and that is precisely what the hyde u.n .  reform act provides .  it focuses on budgets , streamlining , prioritization of programs , oversight , accountability , peacekeeping , and human rights .  but the hyde bill also uses the leverage of withholding up to 50 percent of u.s. assessed dues if certifications are not made in key areas .  under the hyde bill , the u.n .  must achieve 32 of 39 reforms , 14 of which are mandatory , or face the potential loss of 50 percent of u.s. assessed dues .  let us be clear .  this is the point of contention , mr. speaker , that is , who controls the power of the purse .  i submit at the beginning of this debate that the power of the purse is the power of the american people .  it is not for the state department or even the secretary of state to say when and how the resources of the american people will be spent .  that is the function of the congress of the united states even where the united nations is concerned .  it is time to save the u.n .  from its own scandals and mismanagement .  it is time for u.n .  reform with teeth .  let us begin the debate .  then let us pass the henry j. hyde u.n .  reform act .  mr. chairman , i yield myself such time as i may consume .  i rise for a few brief moments to speak on behalf of title vi of this bill which calls for far-reaching reforms in the areas of planning , management , conduct and accountability of peacekeeping operations within the united nations .  it does , as the gentleman from california said quite accurately , it does involve some tough love and the potential for withholding support for the creation of new or expanded peacekeeping missions if the u.n .  does not implement the most basic yet critically important reforms that are called for .  as i have said before , the power of the purse is the power of the american people .  while title iv of the peacekeeping reforms of this bill do not cut peacekeeping funds , they do withhold the expansion of any u.s. involvement in peacekeeping operations if these reforms are not enacted .  the need for the reforms are obvious .  the congo in this last calendar year , u.n .  peacekeepers and civilian personnel stand accused of widespread sexual exploitation of refugees in the democratic republic of congo .  in eritrea in 2005 , u.n .  peacekeeping staff ran up more than $ 500 , 000 of unpaid international calls .  in burundi in 2004 , two u.n .  peacekeepers were suspended following allegations of sexual misconduct .  in sierra leone in 2003 , u.n .  peacekeepers were accused by human rights watch of systematic rape of women , and the list goes on and on and on .  the need for reform is real .  i am pleased to say there is broad agreement about the need for reform .  in fact , the united nations special committee on peacekeeping operations has endorsed specifically all seven of the reforms that are included in this legislation .  in fact , those reforms have been endorsed by prince zeid of jordan , the secretary general 's special advisor on sexual exploitation and abuse , and all but one , the signature of an oath , have already been adopted by the u.n .  special committee .  according to officials at the u.n. , most of these reforms are expected to be in place by the end of july 2005 .  five of the peacekeeping reforms under this title are linked to immediate withholding of support for new and expanded missions .  they are : the adoption of a uniform code of conduct ; the training of peacekeeping personnel on that code of conduct ; the signature of an oath to abide by the code of conduct ; design of programs to explain prohibited acts to host populations so there would be greater accountability for the behavior of peacekeepers ; and the creation of a centralized database to track these areas of misconduct .  once again i say that officials at the u.n .  believe that most of these reforms will be in place in a matter of weeks , so it is difficult to understand how requiring these reforms before any additional u.s. missions are approved under peacekeeping operations is a little hard to understand .  two additional reforms are equally critical , but may require more time to implement : the adoption of a model memorandum of understanding ; and the establishment of an independent investigative audit that functions for peacekeeping missions .  these are all part and parcel of restoring the credibility of the good work that u.n .  peacekeepers have done throughout the past 60 years , and it is central to the principle of the henry j. hyde u.n .  reform act that we stand , even with tough love , for the idea that we use the power of the purse , which is the power of the american people , in this case the threat of withholding additional missions to the united nations under peacekeeping operations to demand that these necessary reforms are implemented .  mr. speaker , the american people provide 22 percent of the u.n. 's budget , but the american people can not impact what happens at the u.n .  for instance , the american people have no ability to force accountability in the billions stolen from the oil-for-food program .  the american people have no way of objecting to the appointing of countries like syria , libya , north korea and cuba to the human rights commission .  the american people have no way of pressuring kofi annan to resign or force prosecutions of peacekeepers who raped the very people they were ordered to protect .  today , the u.n .  operates with little or no oversight from its member states .  we have an opportunity to change that with h.r. 2745 , which gives the american people the leveraging tool .  by conditioning 50 percent of our u.n .  dues to a series of reforms , the legislation would finally give the american people a voice on things like religious freedom , political oppression and abuses of power that have plagued the u.n .  since its earliest days .  i urge support .  mr. speaker , i thank the gentleman for yielding me this time .  mr. speaker , billions of dollars in coverups , fraud investigations , abuses of power , calls for resignation , shredded documents .  i am not talking about the nixon or the clinton administrations , though both contained plenty of the above .  i am talking about the u.n. , that most sacred cow of international organizations .  it has been the subject of many scandals .  billions of dollars intended to help the iraqi people were stolen from the oil-for-food program .  it appears that that happened because of conflicts of interest at the highest levels of the u.n .  countries like syria , sudan , libya , north korea , china and cuba have had seats or still have seats on the human rights commission , the u.n. 's body for addressing human rights issues .  those nations are all members of the u.n. , and we should not kick them out , but they should not be setting policy on human rights .  members of this commission can veto certain resolutions that come before the u.n .  sudan , from its seats on the commission , has vetoed efforts to condemn the genocide it is committing in darfur .  u.n .  peacekeepers were recently found to be raping the children , the very people they were ordered to protect , in the congo .  we could go on and on .  the u.n .  plays a vital role in mediating disputes , in caring for the poor , and facilitating dialogue .  but the system seems to breed abuse and fraud and wasteful spending because of the u.n. 's huge bureaucracy .  it is accountable to no one .  much of what happens happens behind closed doors .  changes need to be made .  they need to be made in the structure of the u.n .  they need to be substantial , not cosmetic changes .  the mess needs to be cleaned up .  i urge support for the henry j. hyde u.n .  reform plan , which will make changes of substance .  mr. chairman , i yield myself such time as i may consume .  mr. chairman , i stand here with great pride next to my chairman , the gentleman from illinois ( mr. hyde )  , and recall all the great and wonderful battles that he has fought in his career , and i am so proud to be at his side at this , not the last battle that we will fight , but , as we lead into the sunset of his career , a battle that will be meaningful and remembered , and for which the american people will be grateful that we had his leadership .  also , i might add , we are grateful for the honorable adversarial relationship that we have on the other side of the aisle , the gentleman from california ( mr. lantos )  , a champion of human rights , a dear friend , and someone who i greatly respect and whose guidance , i might say , has been important to my own career .  we are here today to take up the bill named for the gentleman from illinois ( mr. hyde )  , the henry hyde united nations reform act of 2005 .  this bill will reform the united nations in a meaningful and lasting way , especially in the arena of accountability .  reform is vital in this area .  and if anyone should doubt that , they only need look at the oil-for-food scandal which my subcommittee , under the leadership of the gentleman from illinois ( mr. hyde )  , has been investigating .  the oil-for-food scandal , let us remember what it was .  the oil-for-food program was set up in order to make sure that the women and children and noncombatants of iraq did not die of lack of food and medicines because of an oil boycott that we had put , the united nations had placed , on iraq under saddam hussein 's regime as a way of pressuring saddam hussein to give up his chemical and biological weapons , weapons of mass destruction , and to continue , and to refrain from his hostile acts like the invasion of kuwait .  unfortunately , the oil-for-food scandal is what happened to the oil-for-food program .  we decided to establish a program , the oil-for-food program , which would permit the iraqi regime to sell a certain amount of oil under united nations supervision and to use the resources from that sale to purchase a certain amount of humanitarian supplies to help the so-called starving women and children of iraq so these people would not be necessarily harmed .  right from the beginning , as the united nations organized the program , saddam hussein , this vicious dictator , this mass murderer , was able to choose the buyers for iraq 's oil , as well as the suppliers of humanitarian goods , which would then be the product of the sale of that oil .  what do you expect will happen when that is the way it is organized ?  and why was it organized that way ?  it was organized that way because it was a united nations program .  let us note that our allies , including france and russia , who had demanded that we have an oil-for-food program to help those poor and starving iraqi children , that as we put the program in place , instead of helping us , they became hindrances to our making sure that the program was run in an honest way .  saddam hussein was able to demand kickbacks and surcharges for the sale of oil and the purchase of humanitarian goods .  our allies were all too willing to pay those kickbacks .  these are the same ones who pressured us to establish the program .  business was the driving factor , of course , in their decision .  but let us note that another driving factor was the fact that we have uncovered that as part of the oil-for-food program bribes were being channeled to people in those very governments , and perhaps that had something to do with the decision-making process of our so-called allies .  of the estimated $ 65 billion in oil sales during the time of the oil-for-food program , perhaps as much as $ 10 billion was siphoned off by saddam hussein , this mass murderer , and this $ 10 billion , which was supposed to be going to the iraqi people to alleviate their suffering .  a united nations-sanctioned inquiry led by federal reserve bank chairman paul volcker has unearthed these evidences of kickbacks paid , for example , to the former director of the oil-for-food program in the united nations .  thus we are saying that it was a united nations program and the oil-for-food program resources were used to bribe benon sevan , united nations official who oversaw the program who had been appointed by secretary-general kofi annan and was a close confidant of kofi annan .  the volcker commission also published evidence detailing the destruction of documents about the oil-for-food program as late as last year by annan 's former chief of staff , iqbal riza .  the house international relations committee has been investigating the united nations oil-for-food program since march of 2004 .  the oversight of the oil-for-food program at the united nations itself was undercut by the weak institutional oversight management structures in the united nations itself .  the united nations , as it was organized , as it is organized unless we act today , bears a great deal of the responsibility for the failure of these type of programs like the oil-for-food program .  there is not a culture of openness at the united nations nor is the structure open , but instead a closed structure and a culture of arrogance .  the united nations office of internal oversight services , for example , was denied adequate funding and manpower needed to properly audit the oil-for-food program .  if they were not given the proper resources , why would we expect it not to be corrupted , especially when dealing with the likes of saddam hussein ?  saddam provided gifts from $ 10 , 000 to $ 25 , 000 to families of palestinian suicide bombers with the kickback money that he received from the oil-for-food program .  and let us note something else .  if you want to find out what this program did and the power it gave saddam hussein , and the corruption of this idea of saving innocent women and children as a program officiated over by the united nations , let us recall a speech in this body , not too long ago .  the president of the united states gave his state of the union message here and introduced us to a lady sitting next to his wife , the first lady .  next to her was an iraqi woman whose father had been assassinated by saddam hussein because he was a human rights activist .  how was the assassin paid off ?  we have traced back the payment of the assassin of the woman who joined us for the state of the union , the assassin of that woman 's father , we have traced back that payment to a man who received the money from saddam hussein , and it was channeled through this united nations program ; and the money ended up going through a united nations program to an assassin who murdered the father of the woman who was introduced to us because he was a human rights activist .  if ever there was a travesty , it is this .  saddam hussein was manipulating the program ; and the united nations , it seems , if not willing to go along with saddam hussein , was certainly not willing to go along with the reforms that would have corrected the program .  without approval , the new york office of the banque de paris , or paribas , this was the bank that oversaw the oil-for-food program , the u.n. 's bank for the program made unauthorized payments from the program to so-called third parties on more than 400 occasions .  these third parties where the unauthorized payments were made went to people that they had no idea who they were giving the money to .  we have yet to be able to trace back who actually runs the corporations who received over 400 payments from the bank that ran this oil-for-food program , all of this , of course , under the united nations ' direction .  now , that is the oil-for-food program .  we could go on about that for hours .  but there are other problems at the u.n .  which we need to mention , the nepotism at the united nations .  we have seen over and over again people hiring their children .  we have seen situations where , for example , benon sevan sold his vouchers to a company in which his stepdaughter was hired , which was in violation of u.n .  job violation rules .  and let us note former secretary boutros boutros ghali 's nephew .  neoptism is rampant at the u.n .  maurice strong , a long-time u.n .  official and confidant of secretary general annan , hired his step-daughter kristina mayo for a u.n .  job in violation of u.n .  staff regulations .  benon sevan allegedly sold his oil vouchers to a company run by former secretary general boutros boutros-ghali 's nephew .  moreover , this deal with sevan was set up by fred nadler , boutros-ghali 's brother-in-law .  strong has also been tainted by his association with the tongsun park , from the koreagate scandal , against whom a complaint was filed by the u.s. attorney in the southern district of new york in april .  park was attempting to illicitly influence `` a u.n .  official '' through iraqi oil-for-food money .  strong has confirmed that he was that u.n .  official but denies wrongdoing .  the wmo in geneva , switzerland , a long-time wmo employee and sudanese national was accused of skimming $ 3 million from accounts at the organization over a 3-4 year period .  the funds were lost to this corruption and they will likely never be recovered .  he is said to have faked his death to avoid investigation .  accordingly , his wife presented a death certificate , acknowledged by sudanese authorities to have been false , in order to claim his u.n .  pension , which the u.n .  has withheld pending the results of a full investigation being conducted by the swiss authorities at the request of the wmo .  wmo authorities believe that ultimately there are 10-15 other wmo employees who could be viewed as negligent or even gross negligence .  the wmo senior legal advisor reported that while bad , `` the internal procedures were not the worst seen in the u.n .  family of organizations. '' at wipo , also in geneva , michael wilson , an annan family friend , is being investigated by a swiss judge on charges of bribing a senior official at wipo to win a renovation contract on the agency 's headquarters .  the wipo official acknowledges receiving $ 270 , 000 from wilson .  wilson claims the money was from a private business venture .  there are also allegations of employee skimming of wipo agency funds related to the renovation .  prior to operation iraqi freedom , the agency coordinated with international relief agencies and u.n .  member states to relieve the suffering of the iraqi people .  in january of 1998 , $ 43 , 701 had to be recovered from staff members no longer at the mission as well as outstanding obligations of $ 328 , 287 in november 1997 for the unohci .  the audit revealed that an inventory of physical assets in may 1998 discovered that 185 items totaling $ 100 , 994 could not be accounted for .  the united nations claims commission ( uncc ) processes claims for losses and damage suffered as a direct result of iraq 's unlawful invasion and occupation of kuwait in 1990-91 .  in an audit of the uncc 's awards , the oios viewed the present system resulted in overpayments of $ 2 , 170 , 951 to the claimants in the 10th installment .  furthermore , in the absence of relevant information , oios estimates that uncc has overpaid by $ .51 billion to date for other claims .  in addition , it is estimated that uncc would overpay future claims by $ 1.27 billion , under the current exchange rate procedures. '' the united nations population fund and u.n .  environment program promotes environmental and population strategies among member governments .  in a statement before a u.n .  committee in 2004 , thomas respasch of the u.s. mission to the u.n .  explained , the following extravagant travel expenses of two programs at the u.n. : `` in the u.n .  population fund , we were quite surprised to learn that some senior staff members who spend more than half their time in travel status are racking up travel costs of $ 225 , 000 .  in the u.n .  environment program , travel advances to other persons , in the amount of $ 82 , 208 , had been outstanding for more than 20 months. '' united nations office of drugs and crime ( unodc ) assists member states in their struggle against illicit drugs , crime and terrorism .  in 2003 , samuel gonzalez-ruiz , a senior adviser to unodc , resigned , charging that the office `` tolerates administrative and in some cases criminal violations '' such as nepotism , mismanagement and misappropriation of funds by agency staff .  a u.n .  probe into corruption allegations found that `` a senior official improperly gave 11 contracts to his wife. '' in 2003 , an oios probe found mismanagement by executive director pino arlacchi ; collapse of $ 250 million 10-year plan to eradicate drugs from afghanistan .  also found evidence of lavish , excessive spending , such as purchase of a $ 100 , 000 mercedes .  these are but a few of the signs that the u.n .  is on the wrong path .  but talking about problems is not enough , we must do something about it .  this bill is vital for reform of the united nations .  chairman hyde 's bill brings real reform to an institution that is quite simply broken .  regarding the accountability section of the bill , there is a provision for a special investigator to be assigned to investigate further instances of corruption by high officials of the u.n. , such as benon sevan .  this bill brings independence to the office of internal oversight services , oios , removing it from under the thumb of political influence at the u.n .  and assures oios of proper funding to carry out its mission .  this bill creates a u.n .  office of ethics -- an office that after more than a year of investigation into the oil-for-food program has shown -- is sorely needed .  also , the ethics office will be tasked in this bill with facilitating and operating a system for financial disclosure .  finally , the bill creates an independent oversight board ( iob ) to review the audits of the oios and other audit bodies of the u.n .  this office is vital to provide proper oversight of the u.n .  what we have certainly discovered about the u.n .  in the hearings on the oil-for-food program that i have held in the subcommittee on oversight and investigations in the international relations committee , is that the u.n .  was corrupted by saddam hussein .  this bill will go some distance toward repairing this corruption .  i conclude by saying that the u.n .  has not been accountable , transparent and it has not been living up to the standards expected of an institution that receives hundreds of millions of dollars every year from the united states .  the american taxpayers deserve more for their money .  this is why chairman hyde wrote this bill and why we are here today : to fix the u.n .  so that the problems exemplified by the oil-for-food program as well as others such as the horrific rapes committed by u.n .  peacekeepers are never repeated .  mr. chairman , let me just note that what measures that we have been suggesting in the bill , as you have just underscored , are very reasonable , and the fact that we have bipartisan support on the measures demanding accountability suggest that these are things that the united nations should not be opposing .  this is nothing that should raise the fur up on the back of the necks of any official at the united nations .  so i appreciate the gentleman , and also , all those ladies and gentlemen on the other side of the aisle coming at these issues of accountability in a very bipartisan fashion .  mr. chairman , this has been a fine debate today , and i believe that both sides have handled it very responsibly , but let us take a look at what the real issue is .  there is broad agreement on both sides as to the need for reform in the united nations .  this is not in contention .  there is even broad agreement of what changes need to be made , what are the issues at the united nations , a lack of accountability and some of these monstrous atrocities that we have seen , and the inefficiency and corruption that we have seen at the u.n .  there is agreement on the problem .  the fundamental difference between the sides of this debate is whether or not there should be consequences if the united nations does not reform .  what is going on ?  the american people understand that in order to get an organization like the united nations to reform , there must be consequences .  do we think the united nations , this entrenched bureaucracy , will just say , oh , we 're enlightened by the wonderful debate that we 've heard , you 've appealed to our heart , that they are going to make the changes that are necessary to prevent corruption in their organization that they have lived with for years because we have touched their hearts , we have reached their intellect ?  no .  we have got to make sure that there are consequences if they do not reform , or they will not pay any attention to us .  you remember the old show truth or consequences ?  unless we provide consequences for activities and actions that are wrong , we are not going to get any truth .  there will be no truth unless they have consequences for telling us lies .  for years we have lived with the lie that the united nations is somewhat above corruption , that the united nations represents the best of humankind .  it will only represent the best of humankind and reach these higher standards if we say to them , if you are not living up to these standards , there is a price to pay .  the american people deserve to get their money 's worth .  we deserve to try to put pressure on the united nations to live up to its standards .  if we just give them a free pass , whether or not they reform or not , there will be no reform at the united nations , and all of this will have gone for nothing .  madam speaker , i thank the gentleman for yielding me this time .  we are all sinners even though we have the 10 commandments , but can members imagine how much more sin we might be committing had those commandments been mere suggestions ?  that is why the henry hyde u.n .  reform act does have commandments that the u.n .  should and must adhere to .  i rise in strong support of this bill .  on monday as we were preparing for the debate on reforming the united nations , a constituent of mine was at one of the sessions of the economic and social council , one of the many united nations bodies , and he was immediately struck by the almost orwellian and secretive nature of the proceedings , as well as by the vitriolic , anti-american attacks in which the chairman and other members of the committee were engaged .  my constituent made several observations to me that reaffirmed that lives , not just policies , are at stake in our efforts to reform the u.n .  institutions .  this same constituent sent me a postcard like this one that reaffirmed to me the need for this .  it had a note encouraging the congress to overhaul the united nations , and the picture on the postcard is a sculpture of a broken world , implying that the united nations is the means by which to fix it .  however , how can the united nations be considered a legitimate source of stability or an instrument for the protection of the most vulnerable populations or a tool for the promotion of human rights and good governance when it is plagued with graft and corruption , when sexual predators and traffickers in human beings are part of the policing and peacekeeping mission , and when the human rights commission is a country club of rogue states made up of dictators and tyrants and thugs ?  reforming the united nations is necessary for its survival , and it is long overdue .  however , reform must not be limited to rearranging the deck chairs , but instead to correcting the organization 's serious institutional and systemic flaws .  the u.n .  has paid lip service to nominal efforts to reform itself , and the few times that those promises have been kept , it is when the united states has leveraged its financial support for the organization and its specialized agencies .  for this reason , the henry hyde u.n .  reform act of 2005 mandates spending cuts in specific programs , redirects funds to priority areas , and , yes , withholds 50 percent of u.s.-assessed dues if certifications are not made in critical areas .  those commandments must be adhered to .  if we are serious about making the united nations relevant again , and i think in a bipartisan way we are , if we are serious about restoring it to reflect its core mission , and i think in a bipartisan way we are , if we are serious about saving the united nations from itself , then we must render our overwhelming support for the henry hyde u.n .  reform act of 2005 .  i would just like to close by saying that it is very fitting that this bill before us should have the name of our distinguished chairman of the committee on international relations , the gentleman from illinois ( mr. hyde )  , who has been the conscience of the house , the voice of the people for so many years , has had such a distinguished public service career in the house and led us through some very difficult times as chairman of the committee on the judiciary as well as chairman of our committee on international relations .  i am so pleased that this bill before us , which will reform this wonderful peacekeeping institution , will have his name as part of its reform legislation .  mr. chairman , i yield myself such time as i may consume .  i rise in strong support of the henry j. hyde united nations reform act and would like to provide some insight on the background and the impetus for title iii of the bill that relates , as the chair pointed out , to the international atomic energy agency .  to put it simply , the catalyst was the iran case .  for at least two decades , the iranian regime has been pursuing a covert nuclear program .  according to the november 2003 report of the iaea , iran 's deceptions have dealt with the most sensitive aspects of the nuclear cycle .  furthermore , the international atomic energy agency could not disprove that iran 's nuclear program was not for weapons development .  in 2004 , the iaea reports enumerated more iranian breaches , including work on an element that could be used for nuclear explosions .  and the response from the iranian foreign minister as well as the secretary of iran 's supreme national security council was that iran had to be recognized by the international community as a member of the nuclear club and , `` this is an irreversible path , '' they said .  fast forward to this year , and the news reports appearing in the last few months state that the iranian regime plans to install 54 , 000 advanced p-2 model centrifuges at its facility in natanz .  the director general of the iaea has called upon iran to allow its inspectors full access to the sites in lavizan and parchin .  yet iran has recently barred the international atomic energy agency from visiting those sites , and western intelligence sources cited by the media sources suspect that iran may be experimenting with high explosives appropriate for nuclear weapons .  just yesterday at the board meeting in vienna of the iaea , it was revealed that iran had conducted experiments to create plutonium for many more years beyond what it claimed .  all of this , and iran has yet to suffer any consequences or has been held accountable by the iaea for its flagrant and indeed dangerous violations and breaches .  in fact , iran recently served on the board of governors of the international atomic energy agency because , under the current structure , under its policies , countries that are suspected of breaching their safeguards , they are allowed to serve in leadership positions within the agency .  the iran case as well as the linkage to the nuclear black market network of pakistani scientist a.q .  khan illustrates another grave issue , the need to deny and deprive terrorists , whether state or nonstate actors , the access to the technology , to the parts , and to the materials to develop a nuclear-related arsenal .  these dangers prompted the gentleman from illinois ( chairman hyde ) and me to take immediate steps within the context of the u.n .  reform bill to strengthen the international atomic energy agency in the areas of safeguard inspections and nuclear security ; also , to effectively use u.s. contributions to deny rogue states and state sponsors of terrorism , such as iran , such as syria , the ability to pursue dangerous weapons with virtual impunity .  and title iii of this bill thereby translates objectives into concrete actions to achieve u.s. counterproliferation goals .  it seeks the establishment of an office of compliance and enforcement within the secretariat of the agency to function as an independent body of technical experts that will assess the activities of member states and recommend specific penalties for those that are in breach or violation of their obligations .  also , it establishes a special committee on safeguards and verification to advise the board of governors on additional measures necessary to enhance the agency 's ability to detect undeclared activities by member nations .  furthermore , it seeks the suspension of privileges of member states that are under investigation or in breach or noncompliance of their obligations and the establishment of membership criteria that would keep such rogue states , such as iran , such as syria , from serving on the board of governors .  the section in this act reinforces our u.s. priorities concerning the safety of nuclear materials and counterproliferation by calling for u.s. voluntary contributions to the agency to primarily be used to fund activities related to nuclear security .  and , mr. chairman , that is why , under the leadership and expertise of the gentleman from illinois ( chairman hyde ) , we understand that the bill before us and especially title iii of this bill translates these objectives into concrete actions , and we hope that the full body will recommend passage of this bill .  i thank the gentleman for yielding me this time .  mr. chairman , i love henry hyde .  i have awesome respect for tom lantos .  i thank the gentleman from california for supporting the president in the war against iraq and to go into afghanistan .  i thank him for being such a clear thinker along with the gentleman from illinois on so many issues .  we are not part of the kyoto agreement .  we are not part of the land mine agreement .  we are not part of other treaties .  we are not part of the icc , the international criminal court .  i understand those things .  we are in a war in afghanistan , a war in iraq , and we are telling the president of the united states and the secretary of state , forget it .  we do n't care what you think .  we 're going ahead .  mandatory , nuclear option .  it is going to happen even if the u.n .  does most of what we ask .  even if they do 80 percent of what we ask , it is still going to happen .  mandatory .  i can not believe when our men and women are fighting in iraq that we would move forward with legislation like this when we need to draw countries together .  the problem is not all the reforms can physically happen , and some of them will not happen , and some in the u.n .  might not even want them to happen .  they are eager to have us withhold funds .  they are eager to have more people hate the united states .  the united states , the president , the secretary of state , they are working so hard , and they are making progress .  we have a new manager , chris burnham , who is the under secretary running the whole management of the u.n .  we are making progress .  go with the hyde bill , but with the flexibility to let our president and our secretary of state have the ability to work with these countries to move them along and see progress .  mr. speaker , i thank my friend for yielding me this time .  i rise in strong support of the henry j. hyde u.n .  reform act of 2005 .  it is tough but necessary medicine designed to finally at long last reform the united nations so that they can realize the noble dream of its founders .  today the united nations is rife with scandal , corruption , hypocrisy , and missed opportunity .  clearly there are bright and committed people at the u.n. , and i applaud them .  but others with less laudable motives often hijack the u.n .  mission , its programs , and undermine the vital missions of the united nations .  those of us who believe the u.n .  can and must do better refuse to accept the status quo .  business as usual just does not cut it .  the henry j. hyde u.n .  reform act of 2005 injects real and measurable accountability into the united nations , and that is exceedingly important in a myriad of areas including the area of peacekeeping operations and in human rights .  i want to thank the gentleman from illinois ( chairman hyde ) for his great leadership on this and on so many human rights issues around the world .  this is important legislation .  i hope the body will support it .  mr. chairman , i reserve the balance of my time .  yes , i am .  mr. chairman , i want to assure the gentleman that the committee stands ready to work with the gentleman from indiana ( mr. souder )  to ensure that he gets the cables he has requested .  it is an important part of the gentleman 's work and our congressional oversight function .  we will work very closely with the gentleman on this .  mr. chairman , i yield myself the balance of my time .  mr. chairman , i want to again thank the gentleman from illinois ( mr. hyde )  for his steadfast leadership against drug traffickers around the world , as well as the gentleman from new jersey ( mr. smith )  .  they have been yeomen in the fight against narcotics , human trafficking , terrorism , and in defense of international human rights .  i urge unanimous consent , if not an overwhelming majority , asking that these drug traffickers be extradited and we get adequate information from the state department so we know what we are requesting because we have not been able to get that data .  mr. chairman , i demand a recorded vote .  mr. chairman , i yield myself such time as i may consume to engage in a colloquy with the gentleman from new jersey ( mr. smith ) .  mr. chairman , i would like to seek the support of the chairman in acquiring three cables from the state department : one cable from the u.s. embassy in kabul describing the lack of assistance from the afghan government on heroin trade , and two cables from the u.s. embassy in bogota regarding lack of u.s. support thus far for the demobilization program .  mr. chairman , i rise in strong support of h.r. 2745 , the henry j. hyde united nations reform act of 2005 .  h.r. 2745 is a common sense piece of legislation that would mandate timely change to a united nations suffering from scandal , mismanagement and abuse .  specifically , it would withhold 50 percent of regular assessed budget contributions unless the u.n .  enacts 39 specific budgetary , accountability , and human rights-related reforms necessary to providing needed transparency to the world body .  the need for this legislation could not be more evident .  over the past few years we have witnessed a united nations mired in scandal .  the u.n .  oil-for-food program was a glaring failure that served only to benefit a tyrant and keep the iraqi people in a state of despondency and despair .  as a result , the oil-for-food program has become the biggest scandal in the history of the u.n .  and one of the greatest financial scandals of modern times .  scandals involving u.n .  peacekeeping operations have also escalated .  in congo and bosnia , u.n .  peacekeepers were accused of widespread sexual exploitation and rape of refugees , betraying the trust of the very people they were there to protect .  in sierra leone , peacekeepers were accused of systematically raping women .  these actions are reprehensible in any society and unbecoming to an organization whose founding charter is dedicated to the promotion and respect for human rights and maintaining international peace and security .  in recent years , the u.n .  has also abdicated their role as a protector of human rights .  this legislation rightfully prevents some of the world 's premier human rights abusers such as cuba , sudan and libya from having a seat on the u.n .  commission of human rights .  without h.r. 2745 , we will be sending american taxpayer dollars to support an international organization that currently embraces mediocrity , corruption and waste as the status quo .  the united nations reform act will go a long way to employ proper checks and balances to an organization that i believe has lost control of both its purpose and mission , and no longer adequately represents the united states ' interests , nor the interests of democracies around the world .  it is time for these common sense reforms .  the american people who pay 22 percent of the u.n .  dues demand that their tax dollars go to an organization that is transparent , and accountable .  mr. chairman , i urge passage of this legislation .  mr. chairman , i rise to commend the gentleman from illinois ( mr. hyde )  and the gentleman from california ( mr. lantos )  and the gentleman from new jersey ( mr. smith )  and the members of the committee on international relations for their work in bringing this legislation to the floor today .  i want to express my gratitude to the gentleman from illinois ( chairman hyde ) and the gentleman from california ( mr. lantos )  and the gentleman from new jersey i want to also give commendation of thanks to the staff , the majority and minority staff .  they have been very good , and i want to personally thank them .  this bipartisan , bicameral legislation reaffirms that the promotion of democracy , freedom , and fundamental rights constitutes an essential element of u.s. foreign policy .  it strengthens the ability of the state department to promote democracy with respect particularly to nondemocratic countries .  through the cooperation and work of the gentleman from illinois ( mr. hyde )  and the gentleman from california ( mr. lantos )  and the gentleman from new jersey ( mr. smith )  , much of that legislation has been included in the state department authorization bill .  with these provisions , we are ensuring that the democratic principles that are the foundation of america are intentionally and purposely promoted worldwide .  this legislation makes critical structural changes at the state department that reflect our nation 's commitment to the spread of democracy .  additionally , it increases the number of foreign service officers assigned to the bureau of democracy , human rights , and labor and creates two regional democracy hubs .  the secretary of state is also directed to prepare an annual report on democracy which will designate countries as `` nondemocratic '' or `` democratic transition countries. '' there is so much else in this bill , but before i run out of time , i want to thank the gentleman from illinois ( mr. hyde )  again and the gentleman from california ( mr. lantos )  and the gentleman from new jersey ( mr. smith )  , and i want to give my special thanks to the gentleman from illinois ( mr. hyde )  not just for his work on this legislation and for his support for our advance democracy effort , but i want to thank him for his dedication to preserving freedom and protecting the innocent throughout his many years in public service .  mr. chairman , i can remember being on the floor late at night during the situation with regard to the contras down in nicaragua and following the leadership of the gentleman from illinois ( mr. hyde )  on all of these issues .  he has been the voice and conscience of this house for years and years .  i want him to know that i personally have followed him on many of these issues .  i have listened and asked , what is henry hyde saying ?  how is henry hyde voting ?  it has been an honor and a privilege to serve with you .  mr. chairman , i rise today to express my strong support for h.r. 2745 , the united nations ( u.n. ) reform act .  i would like to take this opportunity to thank the distinguished gentleman from illinois ( mr. hyde ) , chairman of the international relations committee , for his leadership on this critically important issue .  for years , americans have watched with disbelief as the united nations has put brutal dictatorships like syria and sudan on its human rights commission , while at the same time it lectures free democracies on what it means to respect human rights .  now , we are seeing not only misplaced condescension , but also widespread corruption .  the u.n .  was established in order to promote international cooperation and peace between nations .  however , the good intentions that led to the u.n. 's founding have been followed by a long list of mismanagement , scandal and corruption .  clearly , the u.n .  is in desperate need of reform .  most recently , for example , there were problems of kickbacks , bribes and nepotism within the oil for food program .  there are also serious concerns with the behavior of the u.n .  peacekeepers in africa , including accusations of sexual abuse of the very people they are there to protect .  these are just two areas of concern ; there are countless other examples .  this important legislation requires the u.n .  to make 39 critical reforms to decrease bureaucracy , increase oversight and most significantly provide accountability .  in order to ensure that the u.n .  takes action , the bill requires the u.s. to withhold 50 percent of our contribution if the u.n .  does not enact these much-needed reforms .  the united states is by far the largest contributor to the u.n .  this year , the u.s. is expected to provide 22 percent of the u.n. 's budget , an estimated $ 362 million .  it is a travesty that our tax dollars are being misused by the u.n .  with no accountability .  this is why we need this legislation .  in closing , mr. chairman , i urge my colleagues to support this bill .  mr. chairman , i move that the committee do now rise .  the motion was agreed to .  accordingly , the committee rose ; and the speaker pro tempore ( mr. simpson )  having assumed the chair , mr. bass , chairman of the committee of the whole house on the state of the union , reported that that committee , having had under consideration the bill ( h.r. 2745 ) to reform the united nations , and for other purposes , had come to no resolution thereon .  i thank the gentleman from utah ( mr. bishop )  for yielding me the time .  mr. speaker , i rise today in support of the rule and the bill .  i also want to thank the gentleman from illinois ( mr. hyde )  for his service and this bill .  i had some prepared remarks , but i have got to respond to the last speaker who talked about cedaw .  it seems to me that that is a perfect example of what is wrong with the united nations and our funding the united nations .  what a joke cedaw is .  we are the only industrialized country that has not signed that treaty .  women do better here than anyplace in the world .  there is no person who supports equal rights for women more than i do , and i think that cedaw is a joke because of those who have supported it , look at how they treat women .  as members of congress , we have a duty to ensure accountability of each and every american taxpayer dollar that goes to the united nations .  from the u.n .  oil-for-food program , to its lack of action with respect to the genocide in darfur , to the horrendous human rights abuses by u.n .  peacekeeping staff during their mission in the congo , what did they care about cedaw .  the u.n .  is rife with fraud and abuse and needs reform .  two of the most important items this bill requires are to direct the u.s. permanent representative to aggressively pursue a definition of terrorism and to mandate that the u.n .  adopt criteria for membership on any human rights body .  the u.n .  counts some of the world 's leading human rights violators and state sponsors of terrorism among its membership and even taps many of them to be in leadership positions on its subcommittees .  this is outrageous and ironic .  let us empower our new ambassador to the u.n .  and the administration with reforms that have some teeth and will effect change .  the united nations ' reputation of being a credible and effective international peacekeeping body has been tarnished .  it is no wonder so many americans question the efficacy and the very necessity of the united nations .  mr. speaker , i rise today in support of this rule and bill and thank mr. hyde  for his service and this bill .  the united nations charter includes some very laudable goals , but when the rubber meets the road , the u.n .  has failed miserably to put these ideals into practice , especially in recent years .  as a founding member of the u.n .  and a permanent member of the u.n .  security council , we have a duty to insist on a higher standard .  and as members of congress , we have a duty to ensure accountability of each and every american taxpayer dollar that goes to the u.n .  from the u.n .  oil for food program to its lack of action with respect to the genocide in darfur , sudan to the horrendous human rights abuses by u.n .  peacekeeping staff during their mission in the congo , the u.n .  is rife with fraud and abuse and needs reform .  this bill includes a call for certifiable reforms including : shifting 18 programs from the regular assessed budget to voluntary funded programs so their funding would not be automatic ; all new programs started by the u.n .  to include sunsetting provisions ; cuts and streamlining in the funding for the 15 , 484 conferences and scheduled meetings that occurred in 2004 and 2005 , some of which cost $ 7-8 , 000 per hour ; creation of an ethics office to provide oversight over the u.n .  budget and financial disclosure form .  and two of the most important items this bill requires are to direct the u.s. permanent representative to aggressively pursue a definition of terrorism and to mandate that the u.n .  adopt criteria for membership on any human rights body .  the u.n .  counts some of the world 's leading human rights violators and state sponsors of terrorism among its membership and even taps many of them to be in leadership positions on its subcommittees .  this is completely outrageous and dangerously ironic .  let us empower our new ambassador to the u.n .  and the administration with reforms that have some teeth and will effect change .  the united nations ' reputation of being a credible and effective , international peacekeeping body has been sorely tarnished .  it is no wonder so many americans question the efficacy and the very necessity of the united nations .  mr. speaker , i am proud to rise in support of the rule and the henry j. hyde u.n .  reform act , and just as proud to rise in tribute to the gentleman from illinois ( mr. hyde )  .  when the gentleman from illinois ( mr. hyde )  feels something needs fixing , we had better take notice and know it needs fixing .  we need an organization of nations that cares about human rights , but we need a united group of nations that believes more in the rights of individuals than it believes that the right of individuals is to plunder others .  it should be noticed that at a time when the united nations ' reputation for truth , justice , and following its own rules is at an all-time low , it should be doing everything it can to bring information to light , whether it is good or bad .  if the u.n .  leadership , however , spent half the time lining the fabric of freedom than it has been lining the pockets of friends and family , then this would be approaching utopia .  that is not the case .  last month there was an investigator who had something called a conscience .  he wanted to come forward with information .  what did the u.n .  do ?  they hired attorneys to have an injunction to keep us from knowing the truth .  it is time to be united and holding the united nations accountable .  support the rule on the henry h. hyde bill .  well , i am nearly done .  but that makes an exception .  that gives them flexibility .  it extends in whole if they are going to vote with us more than 50 percent of the time .  mr. chairman , i demand a recorded vote .  mr. speaker , today i rise in support of the rule and this important piece of legislation .  and i want to thank the gentleman from illinois ( chairman hyde ) for his leadership on this important issue , and it is an honor to serve with him on the committee on international relations .  world leaders gathered in 1945 to implement a vision that began with president woodrow wilson 's league of nations , was conceived by president franklin roosevelt and brought into existence by harry truman , now known as the united nations .  what the united nations has become today would surely break the hearts of these great men .  more than just a group of countries working towards peace , the united nations represents the idea that each human being deserved a better existence .  what happens at the united nations today does not represent these ideals .  and until the united nations becomes the body envisioned by these giants of the past , until it becomes a place where the good of mankind is truly advanced , and not a place where the agendas of tyrants and dictators are protected , we should not continue to pay 25 percent of the united nations budget .  there are those who believe that we should simply leave the u.n .  and start over , and there are moments when i wonder if really there is no other option .  there may be a day when this becomes inevitable , but now is not the time to cut and run .  now is the time to hold the united nations accountable .  it is important for the united states to remain engaged and a player on the world 's stage to enact these important reforms .  this legislation has offered 39 important reforms with the teeth of tied to funding , which will return honor and integrity to what was once a distinguished body .  i urge my colleagues to support this important legislation .  mr. chairman , i agree with the gentleman from florida ( mr. keller )  that the pell grant program plays an essential role in helping disadvantaged students pursue a college education .  and for more than 30 years , the pell grant program has served as the foundation of federal need-based student aid .  i further applaud my colleague and a member of our committee from florida ( mr. keller )  for his strong leadership in supporting the pell grant program , and as chairman of the pell grant caucus , and for his sharing with us his personal experiences as a former pell grant recipient .  the gentleman is correct to point out that the republican congress has provided unprecedented support for pell grants .  funding for pell grants doubled in the last 10 years , and today we are proposing to add more than $ 1 billion in additional funding .  the number of students receiving pell grants has risen significantly , and today about 5.3 million students are attending college with the help of a pell grant .  so i want to thank my colleague from ohio ( mr. regula )  , the dean of our delegation , for his leadership as chairman of the labor-hhs appropriations subcommittee .  he has been a strong advocate on behalf of education programs , and it has been a privilege to work with him in support of our priorities .  given the constraints that the gentleman from ohio ( mr. regula )  is working with , i fully understand .  i agree with my colleague from florida ( mr. keller )  that we should do all we can to increase the maximum award .  mr. chairman , i am prepared to close .  mr. chairman , i thank the gentleman for his support .  mr. chairman , i simply want to put all members on notice that as soon as the committee rises , i will seek an order of the house to permit 5-minute voting on any motion to recommit .  i mention this now so that members can have as much notice as possible .  mr. speaker , i ask unanimous consent that the minimum time for electronic voting on any motion to recommit may be 5 minutes , notwithstanding that it would be the first vote in a series .  mr. chairman , i yield myself 15 seconds .  mr. chairman , my colleagues , we would do well to heed the marketing advice , what happens in vegas stays in vegas .  what happens on tribal lands with their sovereignty should likewise be governed by the sovereign governments there .  sovereignty is not situational .  mr. chairman , i reserve the balance of my time .  mr. chairman , i yield myself 45 seconds .  mr. chairman , after the rhetorical display , i know my friends did not mean to insinuate that tribes are composed of bums and scoundrels .  yet , what we are hearing here is that somehow the very worst in human nature would come out .  mr. chairman , this is my time , is it not ?  i thank the chairman .  we are making the point that we are dealing with sovereignty .  yes , this is an imperfect world .  but i scarcely imagine that a gross violation of human rights will transpire when we live up to article i , section 8 of the constitution , which says : the congress shall have the power to regulate commerce with foreign nations , and among the several states , states , and with the indian tribes .  tribes have sovereign immunity .  they have sovereignty .  it is not situational , no matter what some leaders in the afl-cio may say .  mr. chairman , i have a parliamentary inquiry .  during the course of my previous presentation , was the extra-curricular activity outburst included in my time when others sought control of the microphone ?  mr. chairman , how much time do i have remaining ?  mr. chairman , do i have the right to close ?  mr. chairman , i reserve the balance of my time .  mr. chairman , i demand a recorded vote .  yes , i do , mr. chairman .  mr. chairman , i demand a recorded vote .  mr. chairman , i demand a recorded vote .  mr. chairman , parliamentary inquiry .  thank you , mr. chairman .  mr. chairman , reserving the right to object , i understand that we are breaking this agreement then ?  mr. chairman , i thank the gentleman for yielding to me .  mr. chairman , i rise today urging the conference , when it meets , to restore funding to the javits gifted and talented program , which was unfortunately zeroed out in this bill .  javits reaches a critical group of diverse gifted children who are not high income .  in fact , they are low income , but have extraordinary abilities .  in my home state of illinois , education for gifted kids has been cut completely out of the state 's budget .  in response i developed my own tenth district laureates program as a way to challenge gifted students in my own district .  the program has become a huge success , providing these students with behind-the-scenes access to top academic and cultural institutions in chicago and surrounding suburbs .  and these gifted children were motivated by this unique opportunity .  i think we must fund gifted education on a national level to allow millions of children across the country to have the same types of challenges our tenth district laureates enjoy .  as the only federally funded national gifted program , grants provided through javits have provided 125 state and local education districts since its inception in 1989 , reaching 2 million gifted students nationwide .  last year the program was funded at $ 11.1 million .  it is a program particularly needed , given the low scores of americans on standard international math and science tests .  positions in the field of science and engineering are growing at a rapid rate , yet the united states is facing a critical shortage in these areas .  just one demonstration program funded by this grant , the project creating urban excellence in the bronx , resulted in a 20 percent improvement in math and science scores for all students of the entire school .  i think we must invest in the future of our children , and i urge the conferees to restore funding for the javits gifted and talented program .  mr. chairman , i reserve the balance of my time .  it is my understanding that this provision , the reason that the gentleman has not had a lot of time to receive this information is that it is a very new ruling from the department of education that these charter schools heretofore have been given funding because they are serving low-income students , special-needs students , and suddenly they have decided that they are not eligible for that funding .  all we do is suspend that funding until there is an attempt to deal with this in the legislation .  mr. chairman , i appreciate what the gentleman has said , and obviously the committee always reserves the right in conference to make a change to something as this ; and if , indeed , information came out that demonstrated that it should be changed , i would certainly concur with that .  so i do appreciate what the gentleman has just said .  mr. chairman , i appreciate what the gentleman said .  perhaps the comments that will follow will clarify that .  mr. chairman , today we are considering the largest -- and arguably most complex -- of the domestic appropriations bills -- the measure for labor , health and human services , and education , h.r. 3010 .  i am pleased to say , as it addresses many of congress 's most sensitive domestic priorities , it also meets our fiscal responsibilities : it complies with the budget act , with our agreed spending levels , and with specific provisions of the budget resolution for fiscal year 2006 .  h.r. 3010 provides $ 142.5 billion in discretionary budget authority and $ 143.7 billion in new outlays for programs within the departments of labor , health and human services , education , and related agencies .  this level represents a slight reduction from 2005 : $ 329 million in budget authority .  this reflects the need to restrain the rate of increase for non-defense , non-homeland security domestic discretionary programs , which provided the overall policy framework for this year 's budget resolution .  the $ 329-million reduction from 2005 -- which is just two-tenths of 1 percent -- may feel more like $ 1 billion to the agencies funded by the bill .  that is because the appropriations committee , in response to a white house request , included about $ 890 million for the 2003 medicare prescription drug law 's startup costs .  other programs in this bill had to make up the difference .  but such trade-offs are intrinsic to budgeting .  as a result , as noted , the bill complies with the fy 2006 budget resolution .  its spending levels are within the subcommittee 's 302 ( b ) suballocation of new budget authority .  to meet the cap , the bill includes a few rescissions .  the bill does not contain emergency funds .  it complies with the budget resolution provisions on advance appropriations .  regarding this last point , the fy 2006 budget resolution places a total limit for advance appropriations in fy 2006 at $ 23.158 billion .  the bill before us today will consume most of those funds , by providing $ 18.885 billion in advance appropriations for fy 2007 .  all of the accounts for which advances are made in the bill are listed as eligible within the budget resolution .  because no advance appropriations have yet been enacted this year , the bill does not cause a breach of this limit .  still , the house should be aware only $ 4.273 billion will remain available for advance appropriations .  under this bill , education would enjoy a slight ( $ 120 million ) increase , to $ 56.7 billion -- which is $ 478 million over the president 's request .  in addition to that figure , the bill includes $ 4.3 billion to make up the pell grant backlog .  this amount does no count against budget limits because it is scored as mandatory .  additionally , the bill continues the commitment the house has made to the national institutes of health , providing $ 230 million more than last year .  this brings total nih funding to $ 28.5 billion .  worker retraining and dislocated worker assistance programs are also restored and augmented , which should help us continue to expand employment and ensure that americans who want to work will be able to find good jobs .  dislocated worker assistance is funded at $ 1.4 billion , $ 62 million above the request .  i commend the committee on appropriations for bringing us a bill that funds many priority programs members care about while living within our means in an era requiring tougher fiscal discipline .  this is a responsible bill that fulfills our commitments to the public while living within the constraints of difficult fiscal times .  mr. chairman , i demand a recorded vote .  mr. chairman , i move to strike the last word .  mr. chairman , reclaiming my time , let me say that i agree with the gentleman .  it is a great program .  i am very familiar with it .  unfortunately , it is in no man 's land .  the way the omb budget came up , the president 's budget , it put it in labor , which is this bill .  but there is no authorization , which means it is still in the transportation treasury , and there is no money either place .  but i hope we can resolve this because it is just what it says , it builds youth .  and we have had real success in my district with it , and i think it is something we would want to retain as a national program .  well , i certainly hope so .  and we will make every effort to find some way to fit it .  it just happens that i am on both of the committees and will work with the treasury , or transportation treasury .  it is a worthwhile program .  it ought to be funded and kept in place .  i think the authorizers need to deal with it , too , to change the authorization to make it appropriate for labor .  mr. chairman , i move to strike the last word .  mr. chairman , i yield myself such time as i may consume .  mr. chairman , i am responding to the question from the gentleman from new york , and that is , yes , we will certainly take this under consideration in the conference .  mr. chairman , i move to strike the last word .  mr. chairman , reclaiming my time , i thank the gentleman .  we are very aware of the gentleman 's concerns .  we have added a modest amount for the cancer institute .  i have had many discussions with the director , dr .  von eschenbach ; and what we are trying to do , and he is doing , the gentleman would be interested in , he is trying to coordinate the various research centers .  there are many good institutions throughout the united states doing cancer research ; and because of the importance and the cost , we want to avoid duplication among these various institutions .  so i think this program of trying to coordinate to ensure that they are not reinventing the wheel at each one of these places , because it is expensive , hopefully out of that effort there will be a more coordinated effort to target a cure for cancer because this would certainly be a great breakthrough .  mr. chairman , we are not going to object , because i understand the correctness of this .  i just would point out this has been carried in this particular bill since 1997 without being objected to .  but , technically , the gentleman is correct ; and , therefore , we concede the point of order .  mr. chairman , reclaiming my time , i thank the gentlewoman for bringing this program to the attention of the house .  one of my goals as chairman of the subcommittee is to help ensure that all children can read by the end of the third grade .  i might add at this point that i think one of the reasons for the excessive amount of dropouts in high school is because there is a lack of ability to read .  it is a disgrace in the united states that 32 percent on average nationwide do not finish high school .  providing books for children to read in their own homes is obviously an integral part of this effort .  that is what the reading is fundamental program does .  although the program does not receive a separate line item in our report , we have assumed funding for it within the totals already provided and will work with the other body in conference to ensure that it receives sufficient resources .  mr. chairman , i yield myself such time as i may consume .  mr. chairman , let me just reiterate that i think it is vitally important that we have a commission to look at the whole medicaid program , because it is getting extremely expensive .  and we want to have the best possible information and ideas as the congress prospectively tries to address the burgeoning costs of medicaid , and , of course , as a corollary to that medicare .  they are tasked with producing recommendations to achieve $ 10 billion in medicaid savings .  and i can not believe the body would not want to at least have a commission to look at the problem that is obviously looming on the horizon .  mr. chairman , therefore , i would urge my colleagues to vote against this if it were to come to a vote .  we are going to be confronted with some very difficult choices in the future , as we found out on the social security issue .  and i think the medicaid-medicare issue will be even more challenging in the years ahead .  and so now is the time to get as much information , as many ideas as we possibly can , to address a very difficult problem .  mr. chairman , i move to strike the last word .  mr. chairman , i am pleased to engage in a colloquy with the gentlemen from florida ( mr. keller )  and the gentleman from ohio ( mr. boehner )  .  mr. chairman , i move to strike the last word .  mr. chairman , i thank the gentleman from ohio ( mr. boehner )  and the gentleman from florida ( mr. keller )  , both of the education and the workforce committee .  i , too , agree that pell grants are a fundamental part of our efforts to ensure low- and middle-income students have the opportunity to pursue postsecondary education .  as the gentlemen have pointed out , republicans have a proud history of providing funding for the pell grant program .  i am particularly pleased that in this bill , we will erase the $ 4.3 billion shortfall that had existed within the program , and put the program on a solid financial footing .  we are also increasing the pell grant maximum award to $ 4 , 100 , the highest level in the history of the program , and it is very evident from the chart there .  and i would point out that if you take a look at that chart , where we became the majority party in 1994 , and you can see the rapid ascendency of the pell grant program .  as the gentleman from florida ( mr. keller )  is aware , increasing the pell grant maximum award , even incrementally , is costly .  each $ 100 we add is estimated to cost $ 420 million .  as the number of low-income students pursuing college continues to increase , the demand for pell grants will grow as well .  mr. chairman , i am pleased to have worked closely with the gentleman from ohio ( mr. boehner )  and the gentleman from florida ( mr. keller )  to provide the resources necessary to help low- and middle-income students gain access to college through pell grants .  as for the conference negotiations , obviously i can not guarantee any particular outcome .  however , i will make a good-faith effort to increase the maximum pell grant award , provided resources are available to do so .  i thank the gentleman for engaging in this colloquy , and i look forward to working with him in the future to continue to support this important program .  we have a point of order pending , mr. chairman .  no , mr. chairman .  mr. chairman , in light of that , i do not oppose it .  mr. chairman , i ask unanimous consent to claim the time .  mr. chairman , i appreciate the gentleman calling to our attention the recent report of the department of veterans affairs about the research opportunities in gulf war illness research .  nih has conducted research in this area in the past , largely through the national institute of environmental health sciences .  the gentleman describes opportunities in neuroscience research that might most appropriately reside in the national institute for neurological disorders and stroke .  we would be pleased to ask the director of nih to report to us what research nih currently plans to conduct during the fiscal year 2006 that addresses the priority areas the dva report identifies .  in our hearings next year , we will conduct a line of questioning to learn more about nih 's commitment to this area of research .  mr. chairman , i yield myself such time as i may consume .  mr. chairman , these have all been agreed upon as part of the en bloc , and i would urge the members to vote for it .  mr. chairman , i thank the gentleman for helping us to work it out .  mr. chairman , i move to strike the last word .  mr. chairman , reclaiming my time , i thank the gentleman for his comments .  and i do agree that funding gifted and talented education in this country is an important mission .  we must continue to provide support for our brightest students to succeed , especially in the areas of math and science .  i hope the gentleman understands that with such a tough budget allocation , we did not have the resources to support everything we would have liked to have done , including some important and successful programs like the javits program for gifted and talented students .  i will work with the gentleman from illinois to address this issue in conference .  mr. chairman , i demand a recorded vote .  mr. chairman , i reserve the point of order .  mr. chairman , in response to the gentleman 's comments , i would point out that we do have a modest increase in this program , and we will be sensitive to the gentleman 's concerns in conference as we try to balance out all of the challenges that we have in this bill in terms of the resources available .  mr. speaker , i claim the time in opposition to the motion to recommit .  mr. speaker , i urge a `` nay '' vote on the motion to recommit .  i think this bill is fair , balanced , and good given the amount of money that is available .  we do a lot of important things in education , health research , and in the department of labor .  i urge all my colleagues to vote for the bill .  mr. speaker , i reserve a point of order on the gentleman 's motion .  mr. speaker , i make a point of order against the motion because it violates clause 9 of rule xxii by proposing to direct the conferees to exceed the scope of matters committed to the conference .  and i ask for a ruling from the chair .  mr. speaker , i thank the gentlewoman for yielding me this time .  i want to compliment both speakers from the rules committee .  i think they have described in many ways the strength of this bill .  this bill illustrates the compassion of america .  and as has been pointed out by both speakers , it touches the lives of 280 million americans in so many different ways , their education , health research to improve the quality of their lives , perhaps illustrated by the fact , as dr .  zerhouni testified in front of our committee , that every 5 years , life expectancy goes up 1 year in the united states .  that is a tremendous gain and a tremendous promise for the future .  and , likewise , we recognize the importance of education .  the future of a nation is so much tied to that .  tom friedman , the writer for the new york times , in his book `` the world is flat , '' points out that we will be enormously challenged as a nation in the years ahead by other countries that are spending a lot of money , a lot of energy , and a lot of human resources on education , because they too recognize that the winner of the future will be determined by the way in which they can educate their people .  this bill i call the `` good neighbor policy '' bill , because it means that we are all good neighbors to each other .  and i think it does illustrate very clearly that america is a compassionate nation , a compassionate people , and they are willing to commit resources to helping others .  in the general debate , we will mention some of those things .  i would hope all of my colleagues who are going to be voting on this bill in the next couple or 3 hours would take a look at what is in there and how important many of these programs are to the americans .  there are 500 programs covered in this bill , and each one of them , in some way or another , touches the quality of life of the people of this nation so that every american , in one way or another , as pointed out by the gentlewoman from california , has a stake on this bill and what it does in their lives .  so , hopefully , we will all reach the understanding and support this bill .  obviously , it may not have enough to suit everybody in terms of commitment of resources .  tough decisions have to be made .  priorities have to be decided .  and what we tried to do on a bipartisan basis in the subcommittee , and we have a great group of members that serve on this subcommittee from both sides , is to make those very difficult priority judgments on behalf of the american people .  and as was pointed out by both of the previous speakers , we have , hopefully , accomplished that goal as best as possible given the resources that were allocated .  mr. speaker , i make a point of order against the motion because it violates clause 9 of rule xxii by proposing to direct the conferees to exceed the scope of matters committed to conference .  i ask for a ruling from the chair .  mr. speaker , i make a point of order against the motion because it violates clause 9 of rule xxii by proposing to direct the conferees to exceed the scope of matters committed to conference .  i ask for a ruling from the chair .  mr. chairman , if the gentleman will yield further , i very much appreciate that and sincerely hope the gentleman will be able to accomplish this .  this is a tremendously important project .  dr .  von eschenbach is doing a huge job .  by 2015 , we could be looking at cancer through the rear-view mirror instead of every day worrying about some loved one or yourself as a sufferer of cancer .  mr. chairman , i make a point of order .  mr. chairman , i make a point of order against section 511 .  this section violates clause 2 ( b ) of house rule xxi .  it proposes to change existing law and , therefore , constitutes legislation on an appropriation bill in violation of house rules .  i do this on behalf of the gentleman from virginia ( chairman tom davis ) of the committee on government reform .  mr. chairman , i yield myself the balance of my time .  to the best of my knowledge , there is nothing in the emtala act that requires states and localities to actually pass laws and regulations creating sanctuary states , creating sanctuary cities , becoming magnets for illegal aliens themselves .  there is nothing that requires them to do that ; yet they do that .  then they come here and say , we are having a problem .  it is undeniably true that the problem exists .  it is undeniably true that they are being overwhelmed by illegal immigration .  it is also undeniably true that much of this is the fault of the federal government .  i do not deny that for a moment .  nor do i deny that there may be some responsibility here for us to help pay for it .  but what i am saying is you pass a law like this and then you pass regulations that make it completely and totally irrelevant in a way to determine .  they say , we do n't want to ask .  we can not ask .  we will not even ask you if you are here illegally .  by the way , even if you are n't here illegally , if you are one of the 5 million people who live in mexico , mexican nationals who have a border crossing card , we 'll treat you also .  does that not encourage even more people to come to the united states and obtain these services , putting even more of a burden on these hospitals ?  of course it does .  these regulations are the problem .  they are a significant problem that only exacerbates the underlying problem of massive costs being incurred by these hospitals in these states .  my hope is that if in fact we have to put money into a program like this , we do so only after we have passed meaningful and purposeful regulations , regulations that at least make these hospitals accountable .  i thank the gentleman for yielding .  i thank both the gentlemen for raising this issue .  mr. chairman , this is a serious problem .  there is a great deal of alarm about the uncovering of this information .  it is a great disappointment .  i thank the two gentlemen for bringing this up , even though it is not germane to this bill .  the gentleman from texas ( mr. edwards )  and i have discussed this .  we will be holding an oversight hearing on tuesday at 9 a.m .  at which time members of the veterans administration , i believe we will also have people from defense health and possibly the office of management and budget , will come up and give us the straight scoop on what actually happened and who knew what and when .  mr. chairman , just by way of clarification , i appreciate the gentleman 's comments , and budgets are difficult , there is no doubt about it , and they say where we are in the priorities .  just by way of clarification , this fund is not for the talented and gifted program .  this fund is to find high quality teachers and reward high quality teachers who increase achievement in schools and increase achievement in closing that gap .  mr. chairman , i demand a recorded vote .  mr. speaker , on rollcall no .  573 , i was unavoidably detained .  had i been present , i would have voted `` yea. '' stated against : mr. speaker , i thank the gentleman for yielding me this time .  mr. speaker , i rise in strong support of this resolution , and i am proud to be one of the original cosponsors .  i would like to point out a couple of problems with the proposed transaction .  number one , if unocal was trying to buy the chinese national offshore oil company , they could not do it , because chinese law does not allow a foreign company to have a controlling interest in a company in china .  that is one problem .  number two , cnooc is a front company for the communist chinese government .  seventy percent of the equity in the company is owned by the communist chinese government .  the money that is going to be used to buy unocal comes from the communist government in the form of a loan .  this loan almost doubles the total amount of debt ; in fact , it over-doubles the total amount of debt that the company currently has .  number three , if we wanted to sell our products in china , under current law , that probably would not be allowed .  so i am in strong support of this resolution .  i chair the committee that has jurisdiction over the committee on foreign investment of the united states , cfius , and i plan to hold a hearing on this when we get back sometime in the very near future , after the july fourth recess .  there is no reason that we can not find a buyer for unocal that meets all of the tests that a company in the united states would have to meet .  so i am in strong support of this resolution , and i hope all members of the house of representatives will support it .  mr. speaker , i rise in strong support of the resolution .  this legislation is going to send a much needed strong signal to china .  we do not support government-sponsored acquisitions of american corporations that clearly threaten our national security .  i am extremely concerned at cnooc 's proposal to buy unocal , one of our nation 's leading independent natural gas and crude oil exploration companies .  the chinese government owns over 70 percent of the china national offshore oil corporation .  this is frightening .  china is the second largest consumer of energy in the world behind the u.s. china 's only desire to purchase this energy company is to meet the demands of their ever-growing population and economy .  we can not let this purchase move forward .  what type of precedent would it set ?  what would the chinese take next ?  they have already taken the textile industry jobs , thousands of jobs from other business , whether it is currency manipulation , the intellectual property rights or even government subsidies .  china does not play by the rules .  why in the world would we expect them to do so now ?  folks , this is a no-brainer .  it is time for america to take a stand and say no .  we have suffered too much .  we can not allow the chinese to lock into one of our most precious resources and leave our nation vulnerable .  support the resolution .  i commend the gentleman from california ( mr. pombo )  .  stop this move now .  mr. speaker , i had hoped to come to the well to speak on a bipartisan resolution .  given the preceding remarks from the well , it may be difficult for international observers to detect the bipartisanship .  rather than succumb to the temptation of snappy rejoinders in the field of domestic political debate , rather than use this time as a pretext for a campaign screed that would criticize the opposing party instead of deal with the resolution at hand , rather than rephrase history about troubling campaign donations that emanated from the people 's republic of china , perhaps it is best , mr. speaker , to deal with the resolution at hand , and find some common agreement , apart from the grandstanding and campaigning that is so easily enjoined .  fact number one : just as dwight eisenhower warned america about the growing influence of a military industrial complex , the fact is , there is a political business military complex in the martial markets of communist china .  what do i mean by that ?  the communist chinese do not enjoy free markets .  they , instead , have a program of martial markets .  american investment is kept in minority status ; and every application , from the most innocuous widget to the fried chicken drumstick , eventually brings proceeds to the chinese red army .  and now we have the most graphic example , where the chinese-owned energy company , with government , communist government investment , seeks to buy an american oil company .  it has been said that information is power .  energy literally is power .  early in the 21st century , though we may look to new technological advantages , the fact is this : a nation that surrenders its energy concerns , its energy technology is a nation inviting vulnerability .  and so i would enjoin members of this house , mr. speaker , as tempting as political debate and one-upsmanship might be , not to succumb to the temptation , not to stand as republicans or democrats or independent or libertarians or vegetarians , but to stand as americans .  mr. speaker , i thank the gentleman for yielding me this time .  i support the attempt to block this sale .  this sale involves a strategic asset and , more importantly , a strategic lever for communist china .  our policy for the last many years has been to deter the chinese government in beijing from ever coming into the position where they thought they had enough leverage over the u.s. to cross the straits of taiwan .  this would be a major lever that would accumulate to the chinese communist government on top of the sovereign class missile cruisers that they have acquired , on top of the mig fighter production that they have acquired , on top of the other acquisitions of major u.s. economic interests .  i hope everyone votes against this , votes to block this important transfer of a strategic asset to , and make no mistake about it , the communist government , not a private entity , but the communist government of china .  mr. speaker , both the wall street journal and the new york times agree , a rare event , that we should not interfere with free markets in this way .  america stands for freedom , and that means not just voting for who we want , speaking the way we want , but also the right to buy and sell from whoever we wish .  i remember when japanese investors moved to buy rockefeller center , at inflated prices , and many in this body wanted to stop that deal .  we did not .  and only a few years later the japanese sold it back to the united states for pennies on the dollar .  bottom line , we made a killing .  and americans are better off for letting the market work .  if we take this action , china could rightfully cancel american investments in china now totaling $ 25 billion .  wal-mart , conoco , motorola , united air lines all bought companies in china and should be allowed to do so .  we should recover the conviction of our own convictions , especially in our republican party , to make sure we let the market work and let efficiency and fair play rule the day .  mr. speaker , i rise today in support of h. res. 344 , which expresses the sense of the house of representatives that a chinese government acquisition of a critical united states energy company could impair our national security and therefore justifies a comprehensive review .  as a member of the congressional china caucus , i would like to commend chairman pombo for his hard work to ensure our country and its resources are protected .  the bid by the china national offshore oil corporation ( cnooc ) , whose majority owner is the chinese government , to acquire unocal corporation is china 's first attempt to secure energy resources in the united states and must be thoroughly evaluated .  unocal is one of america 's leading independent natural gas and crude oil exploration and production companies .  it is the country 's ninth largest oil company , producing 159 , 000 barrels of oil and more than 1.5 billion cubic feet of natural gas per day .  the chinese oil company 's plan to buy california-based unocal poses serious questions about national security .  in addition , this acquisition could mean less energy for the united states .  in a free market economy , mergers and acquisitions are a common way to enter foreign markets .  however , china does not yet comprehend laissez faire economic principles .  while our economy promotes competition for the sake of consumers , china 's economy is easily influenced by political forces .  as a state-owned corporation with ties to chinese government leaders , i am worried that cnooc 's motivation is aligned to political and nationalistic goals .  specifically , i am troubled that cnooc may use unocal 's technology to advance china 's military .  as is evidenced by passage of the energy policy act in the house and the senate , i know that all members of congress understand the critical need to secure the future availability of energy resources for american consumers .  i fear china is attempting to buy unocal not as an investment , but to use the company 's vast reserves , especially its natural gas fields , for its own benefit at the cost of the u.s. economy .  for these reasons , congress must ensure the chinese company 's bid is carefully reviewed by all of the relevant agencies .  i urge my colleagues to support this resolution to demonstrate that we will not let china damage our economy or compromise our national security through hostile acquisitions of oil and natural gas resources .  mr. speaker , i move to suspend the rules and agree to the resolution ( h. res. 344 ) expressing the sense of the house of representatives that a chinese state-owned energy company exercising control of critical united states energy infrastructure and energy production capacity could take action that would threaten to impair the national security of the united states .  mr. speaker , i yield myself 3 minutes .  mr. speaker , i rise today in support of house resolution 344 , introduced by the gentleman from california ( mr. pombo )  , and urge its immediate adoption .  briefly , this resolution asks that the president initiate a thorough review of any potential takeover of unocal corporation by the chinese national offshore oil company as soon as any agreement of such a takeover is announced , on the grounds that such a purchase could threaten the national security of the united states .  mr. speaker , at a time of rising prices on global oil supplies , ready access to energy resources is a vital element to our economic security .  it is imperative that the united states protect its access to unocal 's energy resources in order to protect our economy and our national security .  just as importantly , mr. speaker , i and many members are extremely skeptical of assurances that the chinese oil company executives have sought to offer that they would dedicate any oil production from this region to consumption in the united states .  mr. speaker , we know from a number of past experiences that the chinese do not look at trade the same way we do , that agreements made or treaties signed are more of a starting point for negotiation than documents that must be adhered to .  especially in this purchase , the chinese company and the chinese government are not playing fair .  this company is 70 percent owned by the chinese government , is said to be receiving more than a quarter of the funding of its bid for unocal at zero percent or at highly subsidized interest rates .  mr. speaker , american companies who are interested in buying unocal can not get funding deals like that .  they borrow on the open , nonsubsidized credit market , or they would be able to offer a few billion dollars more in an instance like this .  i call that an unfair trade practice , and a good enough reason for the deal to be waved off all by itself .  but , mr. speaker , there is a much more serious reason to be skeptical of this proposed purchase , and it is for that reason i support this resolution .  in my view , a purchase of unocal by a company that the communist government of china controls , a government that is one of our major trading partners but also one of our major trade competitors , threatens the national security of this country by holding out the prospect that every drop of oil , every unit of natural gas produced by that company could end up being shipped to china .  we are all reminded every time we go to the gas pump what has happened to the price of oil recently , and if the chinese shut off the unocal tap , the united states supply of oil would be that more scarce and a gallon of gas or heating oil that much more expensive .  you only need 2 numbers to understand how serious this problem potentially could become : the global excess capacity of oil production right now is estimated to be just 1.5 to 2 million barrels of oil a day , the lowest in the past several decades .  compare that to this : last year , china 's increase in demand for crude oil is said to have been 850 , 000 barrels a day , with the demand expected to grow another 7.5 percent this year alone .  mr. speaker , the chinese economy is inhaling oil , and a lot of other commodities , at a staggering rate .  how can we imagine that a government-owned oil company will not send its fuel to feed that government 's economy , and not our own ?  mr. speaker , i urge support of this resolution that is so needed .  mr. speaker , i reserve the balance of my time .  mr. chairman , i reserve the balance of my time .  mr. speaker , i yield myself the time remaining .  mr. speaker , i want to thank the gentlewoman from michigan for standing up tonight for this resolution , standing up for the american people .  i want to thank the gentleman from california ( chairman pombo ) for this resolution and also the gentleman from ohio ( chairman oxley ) for expediting this , also being a cosponsor , but expediting this to the floor .  mr. speaker , national security has to include economic security .  this is an important resolution .  never in a million years would china let us do this type of deal over there , and do not fool yourselves about that .  this deal is not good for america .  it is not good for american workers .  as we near our birthday of this country , let us not give a gift to the chinese government .  let us give a gift to the american people and support this important resolution .  mr. speaker , on that i demand the yeas and nays .  mr. speaker , i rise in strong support of the resolution authored by the gentleman from california concerning the bid by cnooc ltd .  to purchase unocal corp .  mr. speaker , i remain fully committed to free and fair trade .  however , i do n't believe that this offer constitutes free and fair trade .  the offer also could threaten our national security .  this resolution would encourage immediate review of a merger agreement , which is authorized by the statute already , rather than waiting for bureaucratic processes to kick in .  acting quickly is important because national security reviews of proposed merger transactions often take months and can last over a year .  mr. speaker , a review of any unocal merger agreement with cnooc would be done by the committee on foreign investment in the united states , known as cfius , which was created pursuant to language inserted into the defense production act ( dpa ) nearly two decades ago .  it is chaired by the department of the treasury and includes commerce , homeland security , defense , state , the u.s. trade representative and other parts of the government .  the dpa is solely in the jurisdiction of the committee on financial services because it seeks to identify , stop or mitigate negative effects on the economy from our efforts to protect the nation 's security .  as chairman of the committee of jurisdiction , i believe it is critically important that the administration act quickly to review any merger agreement so that shareholders who would need to review potentially competing bids would have all relevant information at their disposal .  mr. speaker , the national security implications of a proposed merger between cnooc and unocal are unmistakable .  china 's appetite for energy is enormous .  i agree with the gentleman from ohio , mr. ney , that national security includes economic security here .  it is important for cfius to review the possibility that the chinese might divert from the united states all of unocal 's energy production to china to feed its energy appetites if a merger with unocal were to be completed .  i think we please consider the following facts : china 's consumption of crude oil is expected to double within the next two decades .  world production of oil exceeds capacity by the smallest margin in decades .  china 's need for energy is so great that electricity has been rationed to some factories , and the chinese are reported to be investing in technology to `` cook '' low-quality coal into gasoline .  this is costly , inefficient and has environmental problems .  china is the world 's largest economy without a meaningful strategic petroleum reserve .  the u.s.-china commission 's 2004 report to congress indicated that china 's strategy for securing oil supplies `` is still focused on owning the import oil at the production point ... ..  the chinese policy is to own the barrel that they import ... ..  to gain control of the oil at the source .  geopolitically , this could soon bring the united states and chinese energy interests into conflict. ' `` the united states , in contrast , has a free market strategy `` based on global market supply and pricing. '' the same report indicates that china `` plans to expand its strategic reserve to fifty to fifty-five days worth of oil imports by 2005 and sixty-eight to seventy days by 2010. '' so , as today 's washington post points out , it makes perfect sense that a majority-owned chinese oil company seeks to acquire control of oil and gas production and reserves .  make no mistake about it , mr. speaker , this offer comes from the chinese government .  cnooc is 70 percent owned by the chinese government .  one quarter of the funding for its cash offer comes at no or minimal interest rates .  if that is not a subsidy , mr. chairman , i do not know what a subsidy is .  news reports indicate that more than $ 5 billion of the unocal offer is available at no interest -- more than $ 2 billion of the bid -- or at 3.5 percent interest .  these are not market rates .  i absolutely agree with a spokesman for china 's foreign ministry , who is quoted in the post article as saying : `` we think that these commercial activities should not be interfered in or disturbed by political elements. '' by that i mean : without a chinese government subsidy .  mr. speaker , i would like to add that i doubt whether the cnooc proposal will result in a deal which would trigger cfius review .  the chevron offer will go to unocal shareholders august 10 .  the chevron offer now has all of the appropriate regulatory approval .  the cnooc offer comes late in the process and has not received any regulatory approvals to date .  it is far from clear , even with the chinese government subsidies , that the cnooc bid would be competitive with the chevron bid .  .  .  but that is a decision for unocal shareholders to make , not us .  mr. speaker , i urge immediate approval of this resolution and immediate review of any accepted cnooc offer for unocal .  as well , mr. speaker , i urge swift convening of a conference committee on a comprehensive energy bill for the united states , an adoption of the president 's comprehensive energy program for the u.s. and swift adoption of the conference report .  mr. speaker i rise with great reservations over this legislation .  why is the federal government involving itself in the sale of a private american company ?  do we really believe we have this kind of authority ?  i would remind my colleagues that unocal is a private company with shareholders and a board of directors .  that is the governance of the company -- not the u.s. congress .  do we really believe that we should be the real board of governors of unocal ?  if in the united states a private company does not have the right to be sold on the free market , should we really be criticizing the lack of freedom in china ?  many conservatives who have decried the recent supreme court decision that severely undermines the principle of private property in the united states are now on the other side , cheering this blatant congressional attempt to do something that may be even worse than kelo vs .  new london .  i voted recently against allowing the eximbank to use u.s. taxpayer money to underwrite chinese construction of nuclear power plants .  i do not support subsidizing the chinese government 's economic activities .  but i also do not support the u.s. congress involving itself in the private economic transactions of u.s. companies .  some have raised concerns that the purchase of unocal by a company tied to the chinese government will create security problems for the united states .  i would argue the opposite .  international trade and economic activity tends to diminish , not increase tensions between countries .  increased economic relationships between the united states and china make military conflict much less likely , as it becomes in neither country 's interest to allow tensions to get out of hand .  mr. speaker , we should not criticize a lack of economic freedom in china when congress , as evidenced in this legislation , attempts to restrict the economic freedom of american citizens .  mr. chairman , i thank the gentleman for yielding me time .  first of all , i want to thank the gentleman from louisiana ( mr. jefferson )  for the work he has put in to this issue and for the tone that he used in this debate .  this is an important issue and it never ceases to amaze me to see that members come to the floor and try to make it a partisan issue and try to complicate what is already a very complicated issue .  this is not about free trade or free markets .  if it was it would be a very different debate .  if we were talking about exxon and chevron or bp competing to buy unocal , that would be a completely different debate .  what we are talking about is a company that is 70 percent owned by the communist government of china , competing against a u.s. company to purchase a u.s.-based energy company .  that is not free market .  and no matter how you twist or turn or try to make this sound good , that is not free market .  that is free market competing against the communist-financed company .  that raises concerns just because of that .  but let us look at it a little bit more and look at the assets of the company they are trying to buy .  they are trying to buy a major u.s. energy provider .  that is a major concern .  in the world today , in the world market today we are near an energy crisis .  we are almost equal in terms of supply and demand , and that is why the price of oil has gone up dramatically .  the u.s. economy is growing .  the chinese economy is growing .  the indian economy is growing .  the brazilian economy is growing .  all of these different economies are growing and they are competing for the same source of energy .  and that has caused energy prices to go up worldwide .  now , i tell my colleagues , you have got to wake up here .  this is a wake-up call to all of us , to america and to us here , the chinese have figured out that in order for their economy to grow , they need a safe , dependable supply of energy , primarily oil , coming into their market , in order for their economy to continue to grow .  that is how you grow your economy .  it is based on energy .  what are we doing to increase our domestic energy supplies ?  what are we doing to provide a greater amounts of a safe , dependable supply of energy into this country ?  we have been trying to pass an energy bill for 5 years .  wake up .  it is time for us to get together and figure out what our energy future is .  we can not , in my opinion , we can not afford to have a major u.s. energy supplier controlled by the communist chinese .  but what we are asking for in this resolution is for the president , for the administration to convene the commission on foreign investment into the united states and investigate this possible sale , to look at it and determine whether or not this is in the best economic and national security interests of the united states .  that is the purpose of the commission on foreign investment .  that is what we are asking them to do .  we are asking them to step forward and look at this and report whether or not this is in our best interest .  it is my opinion it is not .  it is my opinion that it is a huge risk that we run to allow a foreign government to own one of our major u.s. energy producers .  that is a huge risk that we are running .  at a time like this when we are looking at international shortages on energy , skyrocketing prices , we need to do what we can to increase domestic supplies and to hold on to what we have got .  and at the same time i would encourage my colleagues to begin to put enough pressure so that we finally get an energy bill passed .  i heard one of the previous speakers talk about alternatives and solar and wind and fuel cells .  i would just suggest read the energy bill .  that is in it .  but it also has the realistic view that in the short term , we are dependent on fossil fuels which are oil , gas and coal .  that is the reality .  that is what fuels the u.s. economy today .  we need to do both .  part of it is increasing domestic production of our fossil fuels and making that competitive in this market .  the other part of it is looking at the future and how are we going to replace our dependence on current technology .  that is the direction we are going .  if we allow this sale to go forward , we are taking a huge risk .  and i would encourage my colleagues to support this resolution .  it is the right policy , the right thing for this country , and the right thing for congress to do .  mr. speaker , pursuant to house resolution 351 , i call up the bill ( h.r. 741 ) to amend the occupational safety and health act of 1970 to provide for judicial deference to conclusions of law determined by the occupational safety and health review commission with respect to an order issued by the commission , and ask for its immediate consideration in the house .  mr. speaker , i ask unanimous consent that all members may have 5 legislative days in which to revise and extend their remarks on h.r. 741 , the bill now under consideration .  mr. speaker , i yield myself such time as i may consume .  mr. speaker , the third bill we will debate today is another narrowly crafted bill that addresses a specific problem we found in the osha law .  in 1970 , when it created osha , congress also created the occupational safety and health review commission to independently review all osha citations .  the commission was intended to hold osha in check and ensure that it did not abuse its authority .  congress passed the osha law only after being assured that judicial review would be conducted by `` an autonomous independent commission which , without regard to the secretary , can find for or against the employer on the basis of individual complaints. '' congress even separated the commission from the department of labor .  it was truly meant to be independent .  the bill before us , the occupational safety and health independent review of osha citations act , restores the original system of checks and balances intended by congress when it enacted the osha law , and ensures that the commission and not osha would be the party who interprets the law and provides an independent review of osha citations .  now , let me try to put this in simpler terms .  if you are stopped by a police officer and issued a citation for speeding , would you want the same police officer to be your judge and jury and decide whether you are guilty ?  of course you would not .  and unfortunately for small businesses today , the law is ambiguous and it is vague .  since 1970 , the separation of power between osha and the review commission has become increasingly clouded because of legal interpretations , mostly argued by osha in efforts to expand its own authority .  congress intended there to be a truly independent review of disputes between osha and employers , and when a dispute centers on osha 's interpretation of its authority , congress intended the independent review commission , not the prosecuting agency , osha , to be the final arbiter .  h.r. 741 restores this commonsense system of checks and balances .  small businesses are the real engine of job growth in this country , and we should be helping them , not hindering their progress .  last week , the department of labor reported that more than 3.7 million new jobs have been created since may 2003 .  we want to make sure that onerous government regulations do not hamstring small businesses ' ability to continue to hire workers and compete in our economy .  that is another reason why all of these osha reform bills are important .  the measure before us is a narrowly crafted , commonsense bill that address a specific problem in the osha law .  it passed the house last year and deserves the support of all of our members .  mr. speaker , i reserve the balance of my time .  mr. speaker , i yield myself such time as i may consume .  my colleague from toledo clearly laid out what was a tragedy in her community with regard to the four gentlemen who lost their lives in this accident .  this accident continues to be under review by osha .  we hope that osha will get to the bottom of what did happen , and , more importantly , who was responsible .  i do not think it serves those families , the community or any of us to point fingers and to lay blame without facts .  to my knowledge at this point , this particular case is still under investigation .  there are still lots of details to be gleaned .  and when this picture becomes clearer , we can then take a course of action that in fact may be appropriate .  but i am waiting for this review and this investigation to continue .  but the point here is that the bill that we are debating would actually , i think , assist in making the determination about who is guilty , because by making it clear that the review commission should hear these cases and can adjudicate these cases , you can make a determination about who was right and who was wrong by an independent commission , not by osha itself .  mr. speaker , i yield myself the balance of our time .  mr. speaker , having been an employer , i realized early on that the greatest asset in my business were the people who work for me .  and having worked every job known to man growing up , i know that the people i worked for realized that the greatest asset they had in their business were their workers .  when it comes to the protection of workers , i believe that all employers are interested in trying to protect their employees .  congress , in 1970 , passed the osha act , putting in statute a set of laws , rules and regulations about the protection of american workers .  and over the last , really the last 7 or 8 years , we have made great progress in reducing workplace accidents , illnesses and deaths , because osha , at the prodding of many of us , began to work more cooperatively with employers around the country .  i have been to many work sites in my own district where voluntary protection programs have been instituted and have been signed off by osha that allow employers and their employees to work cooperatively in order to have a safer workplace .  and the results , the results are pretty clear .  if you look at , over the last 5 years , the rate of illness , workplace injuries , and deaths has continued to decline precipitously .  we are making real progress .  so i would continue to urge osha to work with employers and their employees to help create the safer workplace that all of us want .  now , the bill before us simply says that there ought to be this independent review of the decisions that osha makes , that osha as the policeman , as the prosecutor , as the judge and the jury , is not fair to american workers or their employers .  and we believe that when congress created osha in 1970 , they believed , and it is clear in the legislative language and in their intent , that they believed that there would be an independent review commission making these decisions .  all we do in this bill is to make clear that it is congress 's intent and that osha will , in fact , abide by the law as it was written .  so i would urge my colleagues to support the underlying bill today .  mr. speaker , i would like to start by saying that neither this bill nor the other three weaken osha .  we designed these bills to help osha .  part of the problem is that this 34-year-old bill has been changed by activist judges , it has not been reviewed or looked at in 34 years in any sense , and these simply bring fairness back into the equation .  as you can imagine , 34 years ago , we had an osha bill that was drawn up by a democratic house and a democratic senate that was very fair , just a little tilted in one direction , and we are trying to undo that tilt just a little bit so finally , finally , maybe we can get osha to work with the small business community to benefit the workers .  the occupational safety and health independent review of osha citations act restores congressional intent where the operation of the occupational safety and health review commission is concerned .  it just puts it back like it was 34 years ago .  it got knocked out of whack with activist judges .  when the occupational safety and health act was passed , the only reason it passed was a last-minute compromise to create an independent review commission .  if you do not believe me , you do not have to .  go read the testimony .  it is exactly what happened in the seventies .  it is clear in the legislative language of the osh act that congress empowered the commission to interpret ambiguities under the act .  this , however , has been undermined by legal interpretations that did not consider congressional action at the time .  i would think all of us would want them to consider what we in congress did .  mr. speaker , the osh act empowers osha to inspect and propose citations for violations of safety and health standards .  the commission 's responsibility is to review contested citations and render judgment .  osha 's responsibility is to make up the rules and enforce the rules .  but they should not sit in judgment of their own rules .  that can never be fair to anybody .  the congress in 1970 understood that , and we are going to fix that in osha sometime very soon .  congress did not intend for osha to create the regulations , enforce them , and then turn around and interpret them .  i would compare osha 's role to a prosecutor , and the commission 's role to a court .  congress never intended that osha should also be the judge and jury .  this is the commission 's role .  unfortunately , that position has been undermined by other court cases , cases that did not directly deal with safety and health law , for pity 's sake , which suggested that deference should be given to osha instead .  in my view , this must be corrected , and as long as i am in this town and in this body , i am going to try to correct it .  h.r. 741 simply states that deference shall be given to the reasonable findings of the commission in accordance with the governing court precedents as congress originally intended .  in the 108th congress , most of us understood this was important : 224 voted for it ; 204 against .  i know that the union bosses are against anything we do , anything that might possibly help the majority of citizens in this country who are in small business .  lord , they are always against it .  but those of you who care about union members , think about them on these votes .  do n't worry about the union bosses .  they are going to contribute to you , anyway .  think about the workers .  they are the folks who would appreciate this kind of legislation .  i thank the gentleman from ohio for yielding me this time , and i appreciate the leadership that he has presented to this congress on making america more competitive in the world economy .  mr. speaker , this week , congress embarks on an important agenda to make america more competitive in the global marketplace .  over the next several weeks , the house will pass significant legislation as part of the republican congress ' competitiveness agenda .  globalization is not something we can ignore , nor is it something we can stop .  as thomas friedman says in his book , the world is flat , globalization is a reality of our world today .  how congress deals with this reality will determine whether america remains the dominant economic superpower or whether we are relegated to a second-class economy .  america 's businesses and workers have the skills and talent to compete and succeed in the global economy when given the opportunity to succeed .  unfortunately , over the past 40 years , congress has constructed barriers to competitiveness .  this institution now has a responsibility to break down these barriers and allow workers and businesses to prosper .  this week of the competitiveness agenda is dedicated to eliminating bureaucratic red tape .  over the years , regulation after regulation has been levied upon our businesses , hindering their growth and development .  some of these regulations have proved helpful , but far too often these policies work simply to constrain our businesses from effectively competing and thereby keeping our workers from earning the best wages and benefits .  osha is an excellent example of a good idea poorly executed that now hinders our businesses and workers .  the gentleman from georgia ( mr. norwood )  has been a leader in the fight to keep american businesses competitive without sacrificing workplace safety and health protections .  the four bills that we are considering today will establish basic principles of fairness , reduce regulatory burdens and expedite administrative reviews that will increase business productivity among america 's small businesses .  i want to thank the gentleman from georgia for his vision and hard work on all these issues .  in 1971 , osha was created to ensure a safe and healthy workplace for workers throughout the nation .  however , the bureaucracy has led osha to develop an adversarial relationship with our small businesses , defying common sense , good government principles and congressional intent .  in order to successfully create a safe work environment , osha must be cooperative , not confrontational or punitive .  people who own and operate businesses do not want dangerous workplaces or injured workers .  they want to do the right thing , and osha should be there as a guide and resource , cooperatively working for a safer work environment .  unfortunately , this is simply not what is happening with osha .  this is particularly true in the residential construction industry where osha seemed to unfairly target small homebuilders in sedgwick county , kansas .  in june of 2003 , i was contacted by a group of homebuilders in wichita who were frightened by the prospect of having to stop working in order to avoid fines from osha .  these constituents told me osha was planning to fine builders for plastic cups on stairs and for workers ' failure to wear earplugs while operating a wet vac .  while seemingly minor issues to most of us , these fines , which some in the community claimed could be as high as $ 50 , 000 , would effectively put small businesses out of business .  while osha claimed these reports were exaggerated , there is no way i can exaggerate the impact osha 's hostility and excessive regulation can have on the still-recovering wichita economy .  in the case of these small construction companies , osha chose surprise visits , ill-conceived compliance guidelines and an adversarial demeanor to achieve everyone 's goal of a safer , more secure workplace .  the results were that many small contractors in my area of the country were forced to stop working in order to avoid unfair fines which could have been as high as $ 7 , 000 per infraction , no matter how insignificant .  under this approach , osha was doing more to hurt employees than to help them , threatening the ability of the men and women of the residential construction to make a living .  that is why i am a strong supporter of the gentleman from georgia 's osha reform legislation , including h.r. 741 .  this is important piece of legislation would establish an independent review of osha citations .  the american political structure is based on a system of checks and balances , federal and state , the executive , legislative and judicial branches .  however , osha currently acts both as the prosecutor and the judge for the disposition of osha citations .  not only is this inherently unfair and inconsistent with our political system , the structure of the occupational safety and health review commission does not live up to congressional intent .  as the gentleman from georgia has eloquently explained , when congress established the oshrc , it was designed to be an independent judicial entity to provide proper and nonbiased review and adjudication of osha citations .  this independent citation is critically important to the integrity and fairness of osha .  restoring this independence will help osha and the workers it serves .  i support the competitiveness agenda for america , and i support eliminating bureaucratic red tape , and i support the gentleman from georgia 's ( mr. norwood )  osha reform legislation .  mr. speaker , once again i want to commend the chairman of the committee for his wonderful work in this area and commend the gentleman from georgia ( mr. norwood )  for keeping this issue alive as he has tried to enact these appropriate reforms .  once again from the opposition we have heard some very interesting stories .  but the problem is they do not have anything to do with the bill .  i am reminded of the newspaper correction column , that column that is on page 5 or 6 or 10 or 12 .  we need a correction column right here .  the misstatements and the untruths by the opponents would be amusing if this were not so doggone important .  we are not interested in dismantling osha .  we are interested in improving workers ' safety .  i rise to support h.r. 741 , and i want to once again bring us back to the magnitude of the issues we are talking about .  small business , 99.7 percent of all business is small business ; and 75 percent of all new jobs are hired in the small business sector .  have my colleagues ever been up against big brother ?  ever been up against big brother ?  osha 's budget is $ 468 million ; 2 , 200 employees ; 1 , 100 inspectors .  osha is big brother .  and the analogy has been used here , but what if big brother were the prosecutor and the judge and the jury ?  unfair ?  unfair ?  you bet .  that is the current system .  that is the current system under which we are working .  osha is the prosecutor , it is the judge , and it is the jury .  and that was not the intent .  that was not the intent .  h.r. 741 restores the original intent and the original system of checks and balances that was intended by congress .  read the bill .  what does it say ?  all it says is : `` the conclusions of the commission with respect to all questions of law that are subject to agency deference under governing court precedent shall be given deference if reasonable. '' that is it .  that is all it says .  what does it mean ?  it means that the review committee will be the independent committee and the commission that congress intended originally .  very simple common sense .  i urge my colleagues to adopt h.r. 741 .  mr. speaker , i thank the chairman and i appreciate all he does .  mr. speaker , i rise today in support of all four of the osha reforms bills on the floor .  these bills contain reforms that will encourage a more collaborative environment in which small business owners and the occupational safety and health administration can work together and , in doing so , improve workplace safety .  in particular i rise to support h.r. 742 , the small employer access to justice act .  it would amend the osha act of 1970 to reimburse small employers for attorneys ' fees and costs when they are successful in challenging an osha citation .  now it is true that the equal access to justice act already allows small business owners to recover attorneys ' fees when a ruling is in the employers favor .  however , reimbursement for attorney fees is refused if osha can establish that the citation was substantially justified or that special circumstances led to the issuance of citations .  this loophole means that small businesses are saddled with costly attorneys fees regardless of their innocence .  small business owners who believe that they have not violated any law are faced with a difficult question .  should i simply pay the fine or risk possibly incurring greater costs and attorneys fees by challenging this citation ?  no small business owner should face such a choice , especially if he or she is wrongly accused .  small business that have violated health or safety laws should be fined .  it is important that workers should be protect .  but small business owners that have not broken any laws should not be drained by large attorneys fees that they have accrued in order to contest the citation .  i ask members to support the osha reform and in particular h.r. 742 so that a fair legal environment can be created for small businesses owners .  madam speaker , pursuant to house resolution 351 , i call up the bill ( h.r. 739 ) to amend the occupational safety and health act of 1970 to provide for adjudicative flexibility with regard to the filing of a notice of contest by an employer following the issuance of a citation or proposed assessment of a penalty by the occupational safety and health administration , and ask for its immediate consideration in the house .  madam speaker , i ask unanimous consent that all members may have 5 legislative days in which to revise and extend their remarks on h.r. 739 , the bill now under consideration .  madam speaker , i yield myself such time as i may consume .  madam speaker , today we will debate four important bills that make modest reforms to the occupational safety and health act .  these measures ensure that small business owners who make good faith efforts to comply with health and safety laws are dealt with fairly and equitably by the occupational safety and health administration .  nearly every employer recognizes that improving workplace safety is good for business , and it is good for workers .  employers are subject to fierce competition both at home and abroad and must compete in the face of high taxes , skyrocketing health costs , escalating litigation , and burdensome government regulations .  these osha reform bills are designed to improve worker safety and enhance the competitiveness of small businesses that are the real engine of job growth in our country .  the u.s. economy continues to grow , and more and more employers are continuing to hire workers each month .  last week , the labor department reported that more than 3.7 million new jobs have been created since may of 2003 , marking 25 consecutive months of sustained job creation .  but we need to make sure that onerous government regulations do not hamstring small businesses ' ability to continue to hire new workers and compete in our economy .  that is why these bills are so important .  madam speaker , since republicans assumed leadership of congress 10 years ago , we have undertaken considerable efforts to make bureaucracy more responsive and more accountable to workers and taxpayers .  let me give just a few examples : we stopped unwarranted and invasive osha regulations proposed by the clinton administration that would have held employers liable for the safety of their employees who work from home .  we stopped one of the most over-reaching attempts at regulation in our nation 's history by repealing an irresponsible and unworkable ergonomics regulation that would have cost employers billions of dollars and killed millions of jobs .  we have dealt with the problem of costly unfunded mandates by ensuring that congress does not pass expensive legislation and then place it onto the backs of state and local governments .  this decade of progress on regulatory reform should give every american confidence that congress is making positive steps every year to improve government accountability .  and today we want to take one more step , one more positive step to help improve workplace safety , i think a goal we all share .  osha , under the bush administration , has made significant efforts to supplement traditional enforcement programs with cooperative partnerships between the agency and employers .  i am pleased to report these voluntary programs have proven successful in reducing workplace injuries and illnesses .  in fact , if we look at this chart , workplace injuries and fatalities have declined significantly during the bush administration .  and as this chart shows , workplace injuries and illnesses have declined significantly under the bush administration to their lowest point in history , to a rate of just five injuries or illnesses per 100 workers .  moreover , workplace fatalities have made similar declines .  there has been a 5.8 percent reduction in workplace fatalities since the bush administration took office , and that is significant progress .  why has such progress been made ?  because under this administration , osha and employers have started to work together more cooperatively and more proactively to solve workplace safety problems before injuries and fatalities occur .  a gao report released last year said voluntary partnerships between osha and employers `` have considerably reduced the rates of injury and illness '' and have fostered `` better working relationships with osha , improved productivity , and decreased workers ' compensation costs. '' we strongly support osha targeting the bad actors that defy the law and compromise the safety of their workers , but we also need to recognize that most employers are good actors who work hard to address job safety concerns .  no employer wants to deal with unnecessary osha-related litigation and escalating attorneys ' fees that would result from that enforcement .  most employers want to comply with the law , and the offer of assistance from osha is enough to provide the incentive they need to make this investment .  employers will use these resources because safety pays .  the reform measures we will consider today are proposals that , while fairly modest in substance , are important to small business owners who struggle every day to comply with the complex osha laws and provide a safe working environment for their workers while facing an increasingly competitive worldwide economy .  employers who make good faith efforts to comply with osha standards deserve to be treated fairly and have their day in court , and these commonsense bills will help ensure that they receive that opportunity .  the first bill on tap today , the occupational safety and health small business day in court act gives the occupational safety and health review commission additional flexibility to make exceptions to the arbitrary 15-day deadline for employers to file responses to osha citations when a small business misses the deadline by a mistake or for good reason .  this bill essentially codifies administrative action taken by the labor department last year and ensures appropriate disputes are resolved based on merit rather than legal technicalities .  it passed the house with strong bipartisan support last year , and it deserves every member 's support .  madam speaker , i reserve the balance of my time .  madam speaker , i reserve the balance of my time .  madam speaker , i yield myself the balance of my time .  madam speaker , let me remind my colleagues what this small , innocuous bill does .  it says to the secretary of labor and to osha that the arbitrary , 15-day deadline that is in the statute for complying with an osha citation or to respond to osha can , in fact , be waived under special circumstances , if osha believes that the employer missed it by accident or had other extenuating circumstances , they have the option of extending the 15-day deadline .  that is all this bill does .  now , some of my colleagues on the other side have suggested , well , no , they already have this authority .  but the fact is , they do not .  the ability of the commission to waive a deadline on a case-by-case basis when circumstances warrant it have been drawn into increased legal uncertainty by the recent decision of the u.s. circuit court of appeals for the second circuit in chao v. lefrois builder , incorporated , and indeed , as recently as 2003 , osha has argued that oshrc does not have the authority to apply this rule .  so we think that voluntary cooperation between osha and the employer community will , in fact , lead to a safer workplace .  and as the chart showed that i displayed earlier , workplace injuries and fatalities have continued to decrease in each year of the bush administration .  let us make this commonsense change to help employers and their workers achieve a safer workplace .  mr. speaker , on that i demand the yeas and nays .  mr. speaker , pursuant to house resolution 351 , i call up the bill ( h.r. 740 ) to amend the occupational safety and health act of 1970 to provide for greater efficiency at the occupational safety and health review commission , and ask for its immediate consideration .  mr. speaker , i ask unanimous consent that all members may have 5 legislative days within which to revise and extend their remarks on h.r. 740 .  mr. speaker , i yield myself such time as i may consume .  mr. speaker , the second bill we will debate is another narrowly-crafted bill that addresses a specific problem we found in the osha law .  for nearly two-thirds of its 30-plus years of existence , the occupational safety and health review commission has been undermanned and unable to function properly .  now , because a quorum of two out of the three total commissioners is needed for timely decision-making , the commission has in the past been unable to act simply because a quorum was not present .  there are a number of reasons for this .  the appointment process is sometimes controversial , leading to vacancies , and sometimes commissioners must recuse themselves from considering cases , meaning even if there is only one seat open , there is often no working quorum .  for too much of its history , the commission has been unable to gain a working quorum and , as a result , is simply unable to function , despite being otherwise fully staffed .  the occupational safety and health review commission efficiency act increases the membership of the commission from three to five members to ensure that cases are reviewed in a timely fashion .  increasing membership to five commissioners will help ensure that cases are reviewed in a more timely fashion , improving the current system of judicial inactivity that only results in government waste .  in short , it will allow the commission to complete its job by reducing the case backlogs that are as much as 8 years old .  now , the commission 's sister agency , the federal mine safety and health review commission , has 5 panelists , and we have found has worked well in reviewing cases more efficiently .  lastly , the bill permits incumbent members whose terms have expired to stay on until a replacement can be confirmed by the senate , and most vacancies occur during these turnovers .  the u.s. economy is improving more and more , and employers are hiring new workers each and every month .  last week , the labor department reported that 3.7 million new jobs have been created since may of 2003 .  we want small businesses hiring more workers and contributing to our economy , not facing years of osha-related litigation if they can not resolve it simply because the commission has an endless backlog of cases .  this bill simply ensures that osha cases are resolved in a timely and efficient manner , a goal that we all should support .  employers who make good-faith efforts to comply with osha standards deserve to be treated fairly and have their day in court , and this measure will help ensure that they receive that opportunity .  mr. speaker , i ask my colleagues to support the bill .  mr. speaker , i reserve the balance of my time .  mr. speaker , pursuant to house resolution 351 , i call up the bill ( h.r. 742 ) to amend the occupational safety and health act of 1970 to provide for the award of attorneys ' fees and costs to small employers when such employers prevail in litigation prompted by the issuance of a citation by the occupational safety and health administration , and ask for its immediate consideration in the house .  mr. speaker , i ask unanimous consent that all members may have 5 legislative days within which to revise and extend their remarks on h.r. 742 .  mr. speaker , i yield myself such time as i may consume .  mr. speaker , the fourth bill we will debate today is another narrowly crafted bill that addresses a specific osha problem .  in short , we strongly believe that small businesses that face meritless osha enforcement actions should not be prevented from defending themselves simply because they can not afford it .  the occupational safety and health small employer access to justice act levels the playing field for small businesses and encourages osha to better assess the merits of a case before it brings unnecessary enforcement actions to court against small businesses .  under current law , the equal access to justice act allows small business owners to recover attorneys ' fees if the owner successfully challenges a citation .  however , if osha can establish that its enforcement action was `` substantially justified '' or the result of `` special circumstances , '' small businesses can be refused attorneys ' fees even if osha loses the case in court .  historically , the law 's `` substantially justified '' and `` special circumstances '' standards have made it easy for osha to prevent recovery under this broad standard , so attempts by small business owners to recover costs often exacerbate the financial harm caused by osha 's dubious enforcement actions .  let us look at some of the facts .  in 2004 , osha cited 86 , 708 violations based on its nearly 40 , 000 workplace inspections .  yet , how many applications were filed for attorneys ' fees against osha in 2004 ?  that number is four .  yes , exactly four .  how many were granted ?  three .  three .  moreover , for the last 25 years , only 1 year has seen more than ten applications filed for attorneys ' fees against osha .  now , when you compare that number to the more than 80 , 000 osha violations cited every year , you start to wonder .  we heard testimony in our committee on this issue , and what we found is that the law 's `` substantially justified '' and `` special circumstances '' standards have made it easy for osha to deny small businesses the ability to recover attorneys ' fees .  what these numbers tell us is that small businesses can already see the writing on the wall .  they know that osha has the upper hand , and if the prospect of recovering attorneys ' fees is as bleak as it appears , then why fight the citation at all ?  small employers should not be forced to knuckle under to osha citations and settle up front when they know and believe that they are innocent .  this measure simply forces osha to carefully evaluate the merits of its cases against small employers before they bring the case .  if osha 's case is weak , and they bring the case anyway , then the agency will have to pay attorneys ' fees , and rightly so .  employers face relentless competition every day in the face of high taxes , rising health care costs and burdensome government regulations .  the last thing they need is a meritless osha-related litigation that could take years to resolve .  last week , the labor department reported that more than 3.7 million new jobs have been created since may of 2003 .  we want to make sure that onerous government regulations do not hamstring small businesses ' ability to continue to hire new workers and compete in our economy .  frivolous litigation kills jobs , and this measure will help ensure that osha carefully considers the merits of its case before they bring an enforcement action .  the measure before us is , again , narrowly crafted and a commonsense bill that addresses a specific problem in the osha law .  it passed the house last year and deserves the support of all of our members .  mr. speaker , i reserve the balance of my time .  mr. speaker , i congratulate the gentleman from georgia ( mr. norwood )  who has spent a lot of years trying to make osha work better for those in the workplace and those who employ them in the workplace .  he has done a great job in bringing these four bills out of the subcommittee and to the floor today .  mr. speaker , we are here today to help promote a climate of cooperation between osha and employers .  the focus is on improving workplace safety .  in so doing , we have the opportunity to enhance business competitiveness and further job creation .  now these bills are important and here is why .  no small business should be penalized for missing a deadline because of an honest mistake .  no small business should have to wait 8 years to have their case reviewed by the occupational safety and health review commission simply because it can not get a quorum .  thirdly , no small business wants to go up against an osha that is the prosecutor , judge and jury all in one .  lastly , no small business should be required to spend years and significant money trying to recover attorneys ' fees after defending itself against a meritless enforcement action by osha .  these osha reform bills can make a real difference in the lives of small businesses that face fierce competition at home and abroad .  we truly do believe that these bills will help the effectiveness of osha and help improve the workplace safety for millions of american workers .  i encourage all of my colleagues to support all four bills .  mr. speaker , i thank my colleague from georgia for yielding me this time , and i am here in support not only of h.r. 742 but of all four of these osha reform bills .  what we are talking about here , my colleagues , is leveling the playing field , that is all , reforming a 34-year-old act that is long overdue for reform .  during the 2004 elections , what we heard constantly from the other side was the concern about outsourcing of jobs , of losing jobs in this country .  well , there is no way we can compete with other countries with these burdensome rules and regulations like osha puts on our small businessmen and -women in this country who create most of the jobs .  we just need a level playing field , and i am proud to stand in support of these four bills , and i am proud of my colleague from georgia ( mr. norwood )  .  nobody is more concerned about workers and workers ' health .  he has been a leader all these years in regard to issues like the patients ' bill of rights .  he has shown great compassion , and i commend him for bringing these bills , and for the gentleman from ohio ( mr. boehner )  , the chairman , and the committee for working through this process .  so as my colleagues have said before me , it is time to make these reforms and level the playing field .  yes , protect our workers , but also protect our small employers so they can continue to create these jobs and compete in the world market .  then , and only then , will we end the outsourcing of jobs .  mr. speaker , as a former small businessman , i rise today in support of h.r. 742 and republican efforts to reduce the regulatory burden on small businesses , the job engine in this country .  the federal regulatory burden is strangling small business in america .  the estimated total regulatory burden in america is now approaching $ 1 trillion a year .  if we could only save 1 percent of that amount , if that could be returned to the marketplace , that would be enough money to provide capital for 400 , 000 new small businesses .  or it could pay the annual salaries for over a quarter million of our american workers .  furthermore , according to the sba , small businesses that employ fewer than 20 workers pay almost $ 7 , 000 each year in regulatory cost for every employee .  instead of using these funds to create new jobs or pay higher salaries or fund expanded health care benefits , small business owners are increasingly being forced to spend much of it complying with mind-numbing , inflexible , expensive , draconian and all too often just plain dumb federal regulations .  h.r. 742 will make a difference in a small way in helping level the playing field for small businesses .  it would require osha to better assess the merits of a case before it brings unnecessary enforcement actions to court against small businesses .  this act will simply help small business owners to recover attorneys ' fees if the owner successfully challenges a dubious osha citation .  and there have been a number .  let us remember , osha does not always get it right .  these are the folks who alleged that some workers face death or serious physical harm from lifting the top of a sandwich cookie from one assembly line and putting it on the bottom of the cookie on another .  give me a break .  mr. speaker , this is a matter of fairness .  it is a matter of common sense and american jobs .  i urge all of my colleagues to support small business owners and the millions of americans they employ by voting in favor of h.r. 742 .  mr. speaker , i want to express my support for the legislation introduced today by my colleague from georgia .  i am a cosponsor of all four of these bills on the floor today , and i believe they will improve the workplace safety level , the playing field for small business , and ensure that employers and employees are treated fairly .  h.r. 742 encourages osha to really look at the merits of the case before it brings unnecessary enforcement actions to court against small businesses .  current law already does allow small business owners to recover attorneys ' fees if they successfully challenge a citation ; but in the real world of osha , it simply does not work for small businesses .  case in point : in the last 24 years , small business owners have been able to recover costs from osha only 38 times .  in 2004 , only three employers were awarded attorneys ' fees , despite more than 86 , 000 citations issued by osha .  h.r. 742 also limits its scope to small businesses with less than 100 employees or less than $ 7 million in net worth .  this assures targeted and meaningful relief to those businesses that are least able to cope with these hefty and ongoing litigation costs .  this reform is necessary for the vitality of america 's small businesses and the job security of america 's workforce .  as chairman of the subcommittee on employer-employee relations , i have seen these bills through the committee and the full house in the past , and i look forward to their passing again today .  again , i applaud my colleague from georgia for his hard work on behalf of american small business owners and their employees .  mr. speaker , i thank the gentleman for yielding me time and for his tremendous leadership on this issue .  he has been working it for a long time .  mr. speaker , i rise today in support of the occupational safety and health small employer access to justice act .  and i read it that way in the quotes for a purpose .  the gentleman from georgia ( mr. norwood )  mentioned earlier that we have heard language today that ranged on a wide variety of subjects , and i am not sure at all that they were talking about the issue before us today .  this legislation that is before us now is one of four bills under consideration today which reflects the commitment of the gentleman from georgia ( mr. norwood )  and me and my colleagues to improve the effectiveness of osha regulations and changes the environment that has hindered u.s. employers from creating and keeping more jobs .  i have listened to language today earlier this afternoon on these four bills that talked about us losing millions of jobs to china and elsewhere .  the purpose of the legislation that we are talking about today is to , in fact , help create and keep jobs here in america .  i will repeat what my friend from georgia said earlier today , that the osha small employer access to justice act levels the playing field for small business owners and encourages osha to better assess the merits of a case before it brings unnecessary enforcement actions to court against small business .  loopholes in the current law make it possible for small businesses to be denied attorneys fees , and as my friends said , therefore , not even take the case to court because they simply can not afford to defend themselves against a case brought against them by osha .  this exacerbates the financial harm called by osha 's sometimes dubious enforcement actions and discourages small business owners from seeking the restitution which rightly belongs to them .  by closing this loophole , we ensure it is in everyone 's best interest .  madam speaker , i thank the gentleman for yielding me this time .  madam speaker , i can not help but think that all has been said that needs to be said about all four of these bills during the rules debate ; the problem is just not everybody has said it .  if we can perhaps confine our thinking and remarks to the bills before us , we could probably get through this pretty nicely .  and those who want to talk about things that are not germane to these bills have a great opportunity to do so during special orders .  maybe for once we could simply talk about the four bills that we have .  we are starting out with h.r. 739 , the occupational safety and health small business day in court act of 2005 .  at the outset , i would like to stress that this legislation in no way diminishes the worker safety protections of the occupational safety and health act .  i believe that .  i think most members of our committee believe that .  it is not our intention and i do not believe it will be the outcome of any of these bills that we consider today , most especially the one we are discussing now , h.r. 739 .  the occupational safety and health small business day in court act amends the osh act to resolve a conflict between section 10 of the act and the federal rule of civil procedure 60 ( b ) .  the bill is designed to make sure that an employer who fails to respond to an osha citation in a timely fashion is allowed to do so and have his or her day in court , and how reasonable of us to allow that , if the reason for missing the deadline was excusable neglect , a mistake or inadvertence .  that is what rule 60 ( b ) allows , and that is frankly all this bill does .  until recently , if an employer filed a late notice of contest to an osha citation , osha had limited flexibility in accepting the notice because of a conflict in the law that was written 34 years ago .  osha would not accept late notices of contest even if the employer could prove an excusable neglect .  the occupational safety and health review commission , however , would allow a late notice of contest to be filed under rule 60 ( b ) .  this makes no sense .  on december 13 , 2004 , the solicitor of labor issued a memorandum to regional solicitors announcing a change in the department 's legal interpretation .  this change will allow the department 's attorneys to excuse late notices of citation if it can be determined that the lateness was due to an inadvertence or excusable neglect .  the solicitor cites case law , oshrc 's longtime interpretation , and rule 60 ( b ) as the reasons for this change .  this is the right policy in my view , and i include for the record the aforementioned memorandum .  department of labor , washington , dc , december 13 , 2004 .  memorandum & lt ; br & gt ; to : regional solicitors , joseph m. woodward , associate solicitor for occupational safety and health .  this memorandum announces a change in the department 's legal interpretation of section 10 ( a ) of the occupational safety and health act of 1970 , 29 u.s.c .  659 ( a ) .  the department previously interpreted that provision to preclude the occupational safety and health review commission from considering an employer 's contest of an osha citation that is filed after expiration of the statutory fifteen working-day contest period , except in the unusual situation in which the limitations period has been equitably tolled .  the commission 's position has long been that it can consider late contests if the employer establishes that its failure to meet the deadline was due to `` excusable neglect '' as that phrase is used in fed .  r. civ .  p. 60 ( b ) , which provides criteria for granting relief from final judgments or orders .  despite our best efforts , our legal argument has met with only limited success .  although the second circuit agreed with our view in chao v. russell p. lefrois builder , inc. , 291 f.3d 219 ( 2d cir .  2002 ) , the commission has repeatedly rejected it , and this past june the third circuit ruled against us in two cases .  george harms constr .  co .  v. chao , 371 f.3d 156 , 160-65 ( 3d cir .  2004 ) ; avon contractors , 372 f.3d 171 , 174-75 ( 3d cir .  2004 ) .  after studying the statute and relevant case law , the department has concluded that late filed notices of contest may be considered under the conditions specified in rule 60 ( b ) .  this change is not only consistent with the commission 's interpretation , but it is also consistent with msha 's and the federal mine safety and health review commission 's interpretation of identical language in the mine act .  30 u.s.c .  815 ( a ) .  moreover , the previous interpretation had a disproportionate impact on small businesses in that these entities are more likely than larger companies to file untimely notices of contest .  our new position avoids further needless and often futile litigation on an issue that is collateral to osha 's primary safety and health mission .  accordingly , i am directing that all regions implement this new interpretation by no longer making the argument that the commission lacks authority to consider late notices of contest under rule 60 ( b ) .  however , the regions should continue to argue aggressively , as they have previously and usually successfully done in the alternative , that rule 60 ( b ) relief can only be granted to employers that establish all elements of the excusable neglect standard .  in this way , we can focus our limited resources on protecting worker safety and health rather than on litigating a collateral procedural issue .  specific implementation guidance follows .  if there are additional questions , please contact daniel mick , counsel for regional trial litigation , in the osh division .  1 .  no attorney in the office of the solicitor shall argue on behalf of the secretary that the commission lacks the authority to apply rule 60 ( b ) 's excusable neglect standard to consider late notices of contest .  instead , sol shall implement osha 's current view that the commission has such authority .  attorneys handling osha cases arising in new york , connecticut , or vermont , or when otherwise appropriate , shall note that the second circuit court of appeals has held to the contrary , but point out that the le frois decision made clear that the secretary 's reasonable interpretations of the osh act are entitled to judicial deference , and was rendered before osha adopted its current view .  2 .  where appropriate , sol attorneys shall protect the department 's interests by opposing late notices of contests on the grounds that the employer has not established `` excusable neglect '' for the late filing .  consistent with existing law , sol attorneys shall argue that , in addition to the employer establishing that the neglect was excusable , relief can not be granted unless the employer also asserts a meritorious defense to the citation .  see teamsters , chauffeurs , warehousemen & amp ; helpers union , local no .  59 v. superline transp .  co. , 953 f.2d 17 , 20 ( 1st cir .  1992 ) ( citing cases ) .  in addition , because rule 60 ( b ) relief is only available `` upon such terms as are just , '' in appropriate cases , such as where the employer contests only the penalty or madam speaker , all h.r. 739 would do is simply codify the solicitors ' new directive , permanently cementing this change in the osh act and ending the conflict between the osh act and rule 60 ( b ) .  last year , the house approved this measure with bipartisan support of 251-177 , and i again urge my colleagues to vote `` yes '' on this measure .  i know many of my democrat friends think that the labor bosses are against this , and they are right .  the labor bosses are against something this simple , which is simply an indication to me they may not like small businesses .  they may not want anything to occur that helps small businesses .  the gentleman from new york ( mr. owens )  says this bill is not important .  i tell members what , if you are a mom and pop in this country running a small business with three or four employees , i promise this is important to them .  the 12 percent of the labor union members in this country , i guarantee it is important to many of them because many of them are also in small businesses .  many of them who have spouses are in small businesses .  this is just a decent thing to do , allow a little flexibility .  why beat up on small businesses ?  if you have a small business in your district , you certainly should vote `` yes '' for this one bill .  mr. speaker , i yield myself such time as i may consume .  mr. speaker , i appreciate the previous speaker .  i know he is really busy today and had to go `` no '' on all four bills , but maybe i can refocus us just a little bit and explain that we are on one bill right now , and it is a very simple bill .  it is h.r. 740 , the occupational safety and health review commission efficiency act of 2005 .  maybe we can concentrate just on this bill now for this hour and understand that this is a badly-needed change in osha unless you do not believe osha ought to work , unless you do not believe that the osha commission should be in place .  this legislation is especially timely .  in april , the occupational safety and health review commission 's term expired , placing the commission in the same position it has been in for almost two-thirds of its existence ; now , listen to me : almost two-thirds of its existence for the last 34 years undermanned and unable to function properly .  well , why is that important ?  it is not .  it is only important to someone who has a citation hanging over their business , hanging over their head , and you can not get the review commission to operate .  it is clearly , after 34 years : no , we understand it does not work .  half of the time they can not do business .  h.r. 740 , the occupational safety and health review commission efficiency act , increases the size of the occupational safety and health review commission from three members to five .  my goodness .  we really need to spend a lot of time debating this .  we are actually going to change this commission , like most commissions in the federal government , and change it to five members so it finally can do the job that the congress in 1970 wrote into the law they wanted it to do .  what an extreme bill this is .  the bill changes the quorum requirements from two members to three members , and allows the president to consider legal training , in addition to education and experience , as criteria in selecting an individual to serve on the board .  finally , h.r. 740 allows a confirmed member of the commission to continue to serve for up to 365 days to prevent the breaks in service that occur when a senate confirmation is not concluded in a timely manner .  does that mean every time somebody retires this commission goes out of business , because we can not get the senate to do its job ?  that does not matter to anybody except the small business who has a citation hanging over their head that the government will not deal with .  the committee heard testimony in the 108th congress that because of the vacancies , the commission has been nonfunctioning for two-thirds of 30-plus years of its existence .  now , listen to that , for pity sakes .  the commission that you are trying to protect has been nonfunctioning for two-thirds of the 30 years of its existence .  why in the world would you want to protect the present-day system ?  given that the creation of the commission was the catalyst for the passage of the osh act in 1970 , there never would have been an osha had not this particular provision been in this review commission .  and now you do not want it to work .  we are trying to change that .  i believe it is important to prevent the commission from being stalled and unable to rule on cases when there is a gap in appointees .  that does not serve employees or small employers well at all .  let me make one final point .  my colleagues on the other side have been very critical of the inclusion of legal training as a qualification for commissioners , criticism that i can not understand .  mr. speaker , oshrc is an adjudicative body .  legal training is therefore important because the commission writes opinions that will be reviewed by the courts if a finding is challenged .  i would certainly think our democratic lawyers would agree and understand that .  but i would note that legal training is but one of three criteria the president could review before appointing a commissioner , that would mean a democratic president or a republican president .  nothing in this bill suggests or requires that every member of the commission be a lawyer .  the simple fact of the matter is this : when the commission is unable to rule on cases , resolution does not occur in a timely manner .  that is unfair and that is wrong .  this is unfair to all parties and drastically undermined congressional intent from 1970 .  in the 108th congress this bill passed the full house with bipartisan support by 228 to 199 .  i urge passage again this year .  and i will say , if you live in a district where there are no small businesses in that district , then i would vote `` no '' on this .  but if i had any small businesses in my district , i would give it some serious consideration .  mr. speaker , i reserve the balance of my time .  mr. speaker , i yield myself 1 minute .  i would just like to mention to the gentlewoman from california ( ms. woolsey )  that this bill is not about death .  it is simply about making osha work , making the commission work .  it is as simple as that .  mr. speaker , i yield myself 1 minute .  mr. speaker , the gentleman from new jersey ( mr. andrews )  , my good friend , and believe me he is , i want him to be well aware that i am not certainly trying to hire two lawyers .  you can be certain of that .  but we do think some legalese is advisable on the commission .  but being a lawyer is only one of three criteria .  i know that you know that .  the other part that i just want to mention to you is that when we changed this commission to have five members so it actually will work , if you have got a better idea how to make a commission work that is totally useless right now , with three members , of course i have always been open to hear that , but we think five may well do it ; but it will take three members to form a quorum , not two .  that is for sure .  i appreciate you bringing that up so i can clarify that .  mr. speaker , i reserve the balance of my time .  mr. speaker , how much time do we have left on each side ?  mr. speaker , i yield myself the balance of my time .  i do wish my friend , the gentleman from new york ( mr. owens )  , would get the afl-cio to send him talking points just on this bill .  that is what we have this hour for , to discuss this one bill , where we actually are trying to make osha work .  now , i will go over it again .  this is about an agency called osha that has a review commission made up of three people .  this review commission was written into the law in 1970 , written into the law by a democrat house and senate that simply said osha did not get to be the judge and jury .  they do have the right to set the standards .  they can write the regulations and enforce the regulations , but they are not to be the final judge and jury .  oshrc is .  the review commission is .  now , what we find is the commission is not working .  it does seem to me that some people do not want it to work .  i am not sure i know why , but to stay with a bill that is 34 years old and just like it is , thinking it is perfect , when we absolutely know that it is not .  for more than two-thirds of its existence , this commission has been paralyzed by frequent vacancies and often been unable to act .  two-thirds of the time in 34 years this commission has been unable to act .  for more than half of its existence , it has had two or fewer members .  for 20 percent of that time it lacked even a quorum of two .  now , why does the afl-cio or the labor bosses not want this to change ?  i do not know , but you misread it if you say working families do not want this kind of change .  because most working families in this country are in small business .  and tell you the truth , many labor union members also have small businesses with their wives and sometimes themselves as a second job .  you take it on yourself to tell us what the majority party wants .  well , this is simple what we want in this bill : we want a review commission at osha that works .  it is just that simple .  we do not want any more or any less .  that is all this bill is about .  we believe having five commissioners will help aid that process .  mr. speaker , i urge all our members to just simply come to the floor and remember what this is about .  this is a small tweak in a 34-year-old bill that is not working , and it does not help anybody .  it does not help workers , and it does not help employers to not pass this little thing to help this agency work .  mr. speaker i yield myself such time as i may consume .  mr. speaker , i always enjoy following my friend , the gentleman from new jersey ( mr. andrews )  .  i love to hear his debate , and i respect it .  but i just think he is wrong about this .  we are not chilling anybody .  what we are telling osha is you be darn careful before you drag people into court or force them to pay the citation because they simply can not go to court .  they can take anybody to court anytime they want to under this bill .  but they better be right more often than they are wrong , and that is not necessarily the case .  so many of the cases we never hear about because the poor small business owner simply has to pay the citation because he knows that the attorneys ' fees are going to be 10 times more than the citation .  in hearings before my subcommittee in the last congress , we heard testimony from several witnesses about settling citations with osha rather than contesting citations , even though the employer felt the citation was dead wrong .  why is this a continuing theme ?  i do not even have to be in congress to hear this .  i know about this kind of thing going on in my area all of the time .  i would argue that since it is too hard to challenge osha and its attorneys , and the fact that you are challenging the entire taxpayers of the country and the use of their dollars , an employer simply can not afford to go to court to prove that they are right because of the cost .  does this remind any of you that have been in business about hearing from any of your friends with the irs ?  they do the same thing .  they just beat you to death and make you pay whatever they want you to pay and you can not go to court to defend yourself .  the occupational safety and health small employer access to justice act , would award attorneys ' fees to small businesses that successfully challenge an osha citation .  they need to know what they are doing before they drag people into court .  they need to be right .  they will not be every time .  it may cost them sometimes .  but that is better than not ever allowing a small businessman to be able to defend himself in court .  the legislation defines a small business as one with 100 employees or less and with a net worth of not more than $ 7 million .  this is a very limited definition .  this very limited definition will award attorneys ' fees to the very small employer who is often pressured into settling with osha despite the fact that the company believes it has done nothing wrong .  this legislation is needed because the equal access to justice act has not been effective in redressing unfair citations for small business owners .  some people think that is not true .  we think it is true .  the numbers of cases filed under eaja are few and far between .  why ?  because osha can easily claim that the citations were justified .  under eaja this is all they need to do .  in fiscal year 2004 , small businesses were awarded only $ 11 , 585 by oshrc .  witnesses before the committee on education and the workforce have described the economic calculus small businesses make where settling osha cases is concerned .  what was the common theme ?  it is cheaper to settle with osha than it is to fight , win and file for attorneys fees .  that is wrong .  occasionally , some businessmen can not stand it .  they just can not stand what osha is doing to them , and they are willing to pay a lot of money to go to court , a lot more money than the citation to prove that they were not wrong .  but not everybody can do that .  mr. speaker , my bill is simply not a new concept .  i would like to point out that in 180 other areas congress has provided fee-shifting statutory arrangements for attorneys fees .  this includes the fair labor standards act , the americans with disabilities act , and numerous other laws .  h.r. 742 simply levels the playing field for small employers by encouraging osha to better assess the merits of the case before bringing the full force and power of the united states government in their litigation against a small business .  if you think that is not scary , you ought to try it some time .  this measure passed the house , thank goodness , last year in the congress with bipartisan support , 223 to 194 .  i urge my colleagues , in particular my democratic friends who have small businesses in their district , i urge them to vote for all four of these bills .  i know it has been hard to tell what we have been talking about today because there has been so much superfluous conversation going on not concerning these four bills .  but these are four simple , commonsense , fair bills that small business in this country need .  mr. chairman , i reserve the balance of my time .  mr. chairman , how much time remains ?  mr. speaker , how much time remains ?  mr. speaker , i yield myself the balance of my time .  it has been a long 4 hours on four bills .  we stayed on the subject for about 2 hours .  these four bills are very important , i believe , for the small business community in the country .  i realize that the labor union kingpins do not like these four bills , but i promise labor union workers who are out there in small businesses will like these bills .  there have been some outlandish statements that need to be corrected for the record .  number one , there is nobody on our committee , including myself , any of us who made these bills , that believe for one minute any of these bills are going to harm the workplace safety or health factor .  it is simply not going to do that .  somebody said , oh , gosh , if we pass these bills , workers will have more injuries .  members can have that opinion ; it does not make it right .  that is simply not true .  somebody said , if you pass these four bills , you are going to weaken osha .  that is not true either .  we are going to help make osha work a little better .  lastly , i want to mention to my friend who said osha is a federal cop .  that is the problem .  if you believe they are a bunch of police over there , we never will get anywhere with osha because until we get this federal agency working with people in small businesses who want to have a safer workplace rather than a bunch of cops who come around and beat people up , this is never going to work .  i had this happen just yesterday in my own district where this female came in , and her badge was bigger than her brain .  it was just ridiculous .  until we get a different attitude and not feeling that osha is a federal cop , it is not going to get better .  mr. speaker , i thank the gentleman from georgia for yielding me this time and for his leadership .  mr. speaker , we just heard about how antiworker this legislation is , as well as the other three bills ; but i would like to clarify a few things .  this is not an antiworker agenda .  what this does is simplify the rules that govern osha .  now , there seems to be some thought that this legislation is going to make it more dangerous for workers or that it is antiworker , and that is really not the case .  what we are trying to do is smoothly process the help that osha should be giving to employers for a safe workplace .  there is no economic benefit for employers or those who keep and create jobs in america to want injured workers .  quite the contrary .  if a worker gets injured on the job , their insurance rates go up , there is loss of productivity , and quite often , small employers especially , hire family members .  the last thing they would want to do is to go to the next family reunion and explain why their brother-in-law or their sister or some member of their family was injured on the job .  what we would like to see is a cooperative effort between the osha folks and people who keep and create jobs in america , working together for a safe work environment .  one of the ways you do that is you have the timely processing of cases so that you do not have a backlog .  this particular bill would simply help that backlog be alleviated .  this is a pro-worker piece of legislation .  it does more to keep and create jobs in america than anything i have heard from the opposition both today and for the balance of this year .  so i am very pleased to be supporting this piece of legislation .  i want to make the point that it is a pro-worker agenda that we are moving forward here because it will help us keep and create jobs in america .  mr. speaker , my legal career of 25 years was to represent small business owners .  and since coming to congress 3 years ago , i have worked consistently to make it easier for small businesses to grow and succeed in our country .  i appreciate the leadership of the chairman , the gentleman from ohio ( mr. boehner )  , and my next-door neighbor , the gentleman from georgia ( mr. norwood )  , for their promotion of small businesses .  however , osha regulations placed upon our small businesses continue to be among the most complex and difficult legal mandates imposed on employers .  the occupational safety and health small employer access to justice act is a vital piece of legislation that significantly reduces burdensome government regulations .  h.r. 742 levels the playing field for small businesses and encourages osha to better assess the merits of a case before bringing unnecessary enforcement actions to court against small businesses .  by passing this vital legislation , congress will enhance fairness for employers , especially small businesses ; and give them new tools to defend themselves against osha citations they believe are unjustified .  small businesses provide , in the district i represent , 99 percent of businesses , creating 85 percent of jobs for working people ; and congress should act now to help them succeed .  as a member of the committee on education and the workforce , and cosponsor of the four bills today , i have been honored to work with chairman boehner and the gentleman from georgia ( mr. norwood )  .  i applaud their efforts to provide commonsense legislation that will reduce the burden placed upon america 's small business owners .  i urge my colleagues to support osha reform , h.r. 742 .  mr. speaker , i once again want to commend the gentleman from georgia ( mr. norwood )  for his wonderful and excellent work in the area of worker safety and his real concern for making certain that the rules under which we ask businesses and employees to work are workable .  we are all interested in workplace safety .  we have got to get that on the table as often as possible .  we are all interested in workplace safety .  now , the gentleman from california ( mr. george miller )  made some very moving and interesting points .  the problem is , they do not have a thing to do with this bill , not a thing to do with this bill .  we have just heard that grievances should be heard .  that is a concern of somebody opposed to this bill , that grievances should be heard .  well , we agree .  the grievances should be heard .  but as you heard from the gentleman from georgia ( mr. norwood )  , two-thirds of the time the commission has been unable to sit for a variety of reasons , not the least of which they have been unable to seat a quorum .  and then the question is raised : if you can not sit three , how can you sit five ?  no , the question is , if you can not sit two , how could you sit three ?  well if you add two people to the commission , to the review commission , then it makes all of the sense in the world that you have made it easier to reach a quorum .  mr. speaker , i think it is also important that we keep in mind the magnitude of the discussion that we are talking about and why these things need to be fixed : 99.7 percent of all business is small business , 99.7 percent .  and 75 percent of all new jobs in this nation have been created in small businesses .  small business owners , they work hard and they drive our economy .  in this instance , regarding 740 , i rise in support of h.r. 740 because if those small business owners are not working , they are not producing .  if they are not producing , then jobs are not being created .  once cited by osha , an employer deserves his or her expeditious day in court .  and with the current membership of the review commission , it is often , we have heard extremely often , difficult to end that process .  there are some cases that are before the commission right now that have been there for over 10 years , over 10 years .  that is not fair to employers ; that is not fair to employees .  so i rise and say that increasing the review commission will help small businesses , and it will increase the safety of workers ; and i urge my colleagues to support h.r. 740 .  mr. speaker , i have come down on these four bills and i have come for a variety of reasons , but one main reason is to make those corrections that are so necessary with the arguments on the other side .  we have heard , why can we not have investigations ?  why can we not consider another bill ?  why can we not do this or that ?  well , these are all interesting questions but they have nothing to do with this bill .  the hyperbole from the opposition has been remarkable .  the contention , they would say , is that unless you are going to win , do not bring the case .  that is not what this bill says .  this bill simply provides that if the small business owner wins , then osha should be responsible for the attorneys ' fees .  we seek to improve osha and make it responsive to the intent of congress .  this bill is designed to strengthen small business and to save jobs .  again , the magnitude of this issue , 99.7 percent of all businesses are small businesses , 75 percent of all new jobs are in the area of small business .  osha has a budget of $ 468 million , with 2 , 200 employees and 1 , 100 inspectors .  the deck is stacked .  yes , it is stacked ; it is stacked against those most beneficial to our economy , small business owners and their employees .  h.r. 742 would allow a small businessman or -woman to recover attorneys ' fees if they contest and they win , they win , an allegation in a citation by osha .  remember osha 's budget , $ 468 million ?  you win , osha was wrong .  right ?  osha was wrong , but you spent thousands of dollars to defend your business and your workers ' jobs .  remember , you win against a $ 468 million budget .  so osha should reimburse your attorneys ' fees .  right ?  just like current law .  right ?  wrong .  you can not win .  even if you win your case , you may be out the amount of money it cost to defend yourself .  less money in your business means fewer jobs .  remember , reimbursement only occurs if you win .  if you lose , you are responsible , and that is as it should be .  so let us stop punishing the backbone of our economy .  let us stop punishing small businesses and employees and workers .  i urge support for h.r. 742 , one of four commonsense worker-friendly , job-friendly , small business-friendly bills before us today .  madam speaker , i want to thank the gentleman from ohio ( mr. boehner )  for his leadership in the committee on education and the workforce and the fact that he has been able to pass reasonable legislation that not only helps the employee but the employer and gives us a better business atmosphere in this country .  i would also like to thank my friend and fellow georgian ( mr. norwood )  for his leadership in fine-tuning our occupational safety and health laws .  the gentleman from georgia has waged a years-long effort to improve the relationship between small businesses and the federal government 's regulatory agencies , and for that i thank him .  madam speaker , i am a small businessman .  i started my own construction business 25 years ago , and that is how i supported my family until my recent election this year to congress .  osha regulations are not just an interesting debate topic for washington dinner parties .  for me and the millions of other small business owners , they are tough rules with real consequences .  no one wants to regress to the days when workers had few rights and worked in ridiculously dangerous situations with little or no regard for their safety .  in the end , good precautions are good for workers , good for businesses , and good for the economy as a whole .  we are not keeping osha from enforcing federal safety regulations with this legislation .  we are just ensuring that regulators are fair and reasonable when enforcing regulations .  in the construction business , i worked closely with subcontractors who were small business owners themselves .  one of them , a good friend of mine , ran into trouble with osha over this very rule that we are debating today in the small business day in court act .  he and an employee were digging a hole for a septic tank .  they made a mistake during the process , and it was a mistake with horrible consequences .  the walls of the hole caved in , killing the employee .  while my friend was recuperating from and dealing with all the painful consequences that come with the death of an employee when you are a three-or four-man business , osha gave him a summons .  i think everyone would agree that during those 15 days after the accident , responding to an osha summons should not and could not be at the top of his priority list .  he missed the deadline ; and , of course , under osha rules he was not given another chance to defend himself .  this legislation will help small business owners such as this , who run small shops but who employ the vast majority of american workers .  they can not employ full-time osha compliance officers and most owners are not going to be experts on the fine print of federal regulations .  when it comes to our nation 's job producers , we should not be tying their hands .  we should be giving them a hand up .  i urge my colleagues to support this legislation , h.r. 739 .  madam speaker , i am proud to support and cosponsor all four of these important pieces of legislation on osha reform .  each is an integral step to come to the aid of our small businesses .  not only are our small businesses increasingly faced with greater competition from the bigger competitors in the u.s. but also are they faced with greater competition from across the globe .  the last thing they need are unnecessary and burdensome regulations from their own government .  according to a study discussed in the office of management and budget 's `` draft report to congress on the costs and benefits of federal regulations for 2005 , '' it is estimated that the , quote , total cost of federal regulation , environmental , workplace , economic and tax compliance regulation , was 60 percent greater per employee for firms with under 20 employees compared to firms with over 500 employees .  in another recent study , these costs translate to approximately $ 7 , 000 in regulatory costs per employee per year .  we need to aid our small businesses in being more competitive , not help force them out of business .  certainly the goals of the occupational safety and health agency to ensure workplace safety and health are laudable and protecting our workers is and must remain paramount .  but oftentimes good intentions do not result in the best practices .  our small businesses and our workers deserve better .  h.r. 739 , the first of four bills that we are considering today , promotes fairness for small businesses while improving competition and worker safety .  it allows the occupational safety and health review commission more flexibility to make exceptions to the 15-day deadline when employers must file appeals to osha citations .  many of our small businesses unintentionally and innocently miss this arbitrary deadline and can be denied their day in court as a result .  while many of our small businesses are struggling to provide their employees with the safest work environments and access to the best health care and other benefits , they must comply with inflexible regulations such as these .  many small businesses that have unintentionally missed this deadline are simply not able to navigate the complex regulations in order to appeal the osha citation .  in january of this year , even the department of labor agreed that this deadline is too burdensome and decided it would allow the occupational safety and health review commission to have discretion over the 15-day deadline for filing appeals .  this was welcome news for small businesses .  now , all we need to do is codify this provision .  we are certainly not advocating that every small business be given a pass on this deadline to respond to a citation , but let us be reasonable here and give them the benefit of the doubt by instilling just a little bit more flexibility into these regulations .  let me also mention these three other bills , h.r. 740 , h.r. 741 and h.r. 742 , that we are debating this afternoon .  expanding the review board for appeals cases to osha from three to five commissioners would speed up the appeals process so small businesses will have their cases reviewed in a timely manner .  h.r. 741 will restore the original practice and congressional intent to ensure that the occupational safety and health review commission , or the court , will be the party to interpret osha regulations , not osha itself .  and finally , h.r. 742 will allow small businesses to recover the costly attorney fees incurred if they successfully challenge an osha citation .  each of these will help alleviate overbearing regulations that thwart the creativity and entrepreneurial spirit of small businesses .  in past years , each of these four bills has passed the house by good margins .  let us send these provisions once again to the other side of the capitol and encourage them to act this year to help our small businesses .  jobs are at stake and a vital economy lies in the balance .  we must keep our small businesses vital , healthy , and competitive .  mr. speaker , i rise today in support of h.r. 525 , the small business health fairness act of 2005 .  in 2003 , there were an estimated 45 million americans without health insurance .  small businesses employ over 60 percent of those currently uninsured .  without question , cost is often the biggest barrier to affordable health insurance for small businesses .  too often , i hear from small businesses owners back in my district in missouri that the affordability of health insurance is their number one concern .  this problem has been deepened in recent years as the overall cost of health care has risen .  while large employer-sponsored health plans have seen an average 12-percent increase in health insurance premiums , small businesses have been & lt ; center & gt ; & lt ; pre & gt ; [ page : h6495 ] & lt ; /pre & gt ; & lt ; /center & gt ; by allowing small firms to join an association health plan as h.r. 525 would do , small employers would enjoy greater bargaining power because they would become part of a larger bargaining force , enabling them to offer their employees the same advantages and benefits that are currently available to larger companies .  i doubt that many of my colleagues here would deny the fact that small businesses are leaders in innovation .  they pay the majority of our nation 's taxes and employ the majority of our nation 's workforce .  yet we have burdened them with excessive regulations to the point that they can not afford to provide health insurance to their employees .  we must not deny quality , affordable health care to these hard-working americans who want to safeguard their own health and provide their families access to such protections .  i urge my colleagues to support the small business health fairness act .  mr. speaker , by direction of the committee on rules , i call up house resolution 379 and ask for its immediate consideration .  mr. speaker , i yield myself such time as i may consume .  i must admit that much of the opposition gloom-and-doom predictions are based on assumptions of what people and companies will choose to do and , therefore , the government should make those mandates .  i am pleased that this particular piece of legislation is based on the assumption that people have the ability to make good choices for themselves without the assistance of the heavy hand of government .  mr. speaker , increasingly , one of the things i hear from small business owners back in tennessee is they want congress to open the way , just to open the way and set the stage for more affordable health care choices .  over 90 percent of the jobs in tennessee are small business jobs .  it is the largest employer in my district .  mr. speaker , one of the things that we hear is that these employers want to do the best they can for their employees .  they feel like they are a part of their family .  the gentleman from texas ( mr. sam johnson ) really should be applauded for introducing the small business health fairness act of 2005 .  it is one of those things that will help small businesses , as we have heard from so many of the speakers , to pool together and to purchase association health plans through their national trade groups .  i have joined him as a co-sponsor of the legislation , and i believe we do have that opportunity to extend affordable , quality health care to millions of americans .  every small business owner knows that providing quality health care is one of the most costly items in running a business .  it is a very difficult part , handling the mountains of paperwork and finding the right policies .  we have the power to help by passing this commonsense legislation .  i ask my colleagues to support the rule and to support the underlying legislation .  mr. speaker , uninsured working families are looking to congress for answers to help give them access to quality health care , and before us today is a bipartisan bill that should give them hope .  the economic picture remains bright , and more americans are finding work every day .  earlier this month , the department of labor reported that 3.7 million new jobs have been created since may of 2003 , marking 25 consecutive months of positive job growth for the u.s. economy .  unfortunately , there are still millions of working families without health insurance .  they need access to quality health care , and they are asking for our help .  the bill we will consider on the floor later today responds directly to their needs .  it is simply unacceptable that more than 45 million americans lack health insurance today .  studies indicate that 60 percent of these uninsured americans either work for a small business or are dependent upon someone who does .  many of these americans work for small employers who can not afford to purchase quality health insurance benefits for their workers .  that is the crux of the problem .  more americans are finding new jobs , but many small businesses can not afford to offer health insurance because of rising premium costs .  our primary goal here in congress , mr. speaker , should be creating affordable options to help the uninsured .  with health care costs continuing to rise sharply across the country , more and more employers and their employees are sharing the burden of increased premiums .  employer-based health insurance premiums rose by 11 percent last year , following a 15 percent increase in 2003 .  as costs escalate , the ranks of the uninsured could continue to increase as well .  the small business health fairness act before us represents a bipartisan solution to this problem .  by creating association health plans , the bill gives small businesses the opportunity to band together through bona fide trade associations and purchase quality health insurance for their workers at a lower cost .  in the last year , we have seen how large corporations are now starting to band together to provide health care to their part-time workers .  small businesses and their workers deserve the same opportunities .  this bipartisan bill would increase small businesses ' bargaining power with health care providers , giving them freedom from costly state-mandated benefit packages and lowering their overhead costs by as much as 30 percent , which are benefits many large corporations and unions already enjoy .  by pooling their resources and increasing their bargaining power , association health plans will reduce the cost of health insurance for employers and allow more small businesses to provide health care to their workers .  last year , the house passed this measure on a bipartisan basis with the support of 37 of my colleagues on the other side of the aisle .  unfortunately , the other body has yet to act on this bill .  but there remains hope .  senator enzi , who chairs the senate committee on health , education , labor , and pensions , has expressed a strong interest in working on this proposal , and i am more optimistic than ever that the senate will address this problem .  this measure is supported by president bush , the labor department , republicans and democrats , and , moreover , a poll conducted last year reveals that 93 percent of americans support ahps as an option for providing affordable health care for american workers .  small businesses deserve the chance to obtain high-quality health insurance at an affordable price for their workers , and ahps are a prescription for helping the uninsured .  mr. speaker , i think the rule before us today is a fair rule , and i urge my colleagues to support it .  mr. speaker , pursuant to h. res. 379 , i call up the bill ( h.r. 525 ) to amend title i of the employee retirement income security act of 1974 to improve access and choice for entrepreneurs with small businesses with respect to medical care for their employees , and ask for its immediate consideration .  mr. speaker , i ask unanimous consent that all members may have 5 legislative days within which to revise and extend their remarks on h.r. 525 .  mr. speaker , i yield myself such time as i may consume .  mr. speaker , the most pressing crisis we face in health care today is the number of americans who lack basic health insurance .  the number of uninsured americans today stands at 45 million americans ; 27 million are fully employed .  and 63 percent of these working uninsured are either self-employed or work for a small business with fewer than 100 employees .  it is tragic that so many employers can not afford to purchase high-quality health insurance benefits for their workers .  the problem is not going away , and we have a responsibility to confront it .  with health care costs continuing to rise sharply across the country , more and more employers and their employees are sharing the burden of increased insurance premiums .  employer-based health insurance premiums jumped by 11 percent last year following a 15 percent increase in 2003 .  clearly , we need to focus on providing affordable health care to the uninsured as well as ensure employers who provide health benefits to their employees are not forced to drop their coverage because of rising premiums and high administrative costs .  the small business health fairness act responds to this problem and can help reduce the high cost of health insurance for small businesses and uninsured working families .  by creating association health plans which would be strictly regulated by the department of labor , small businesses could pool their resources and increase their bargaining power with benefit providers which will allow them to negotiate better rates and purchase quality health care at a lower cost .  president bush addressed this point directly last year during his speech at the united states chamber of commerce where he said , `` ahps would provide small businesses the same opportunity that big businesses get , and that is the economies of scale , the economies of purchase , the abilities to share risk in larger pools which drives down the costs of health care for small businesses. '' the president is right , and we should help level the playing field so small businesses can offer quality coverage to their workers .  americans overwhelmingly agree with president bush that association health plans are the right plan to help the uninsured .  a poll conducted last year showed that 93 percent of americans support association health plans as a way of providing access to affordable care for american workers who lack coverage .  over the last year , we have seen how large corporations are now starting to band together to provide health care to their part-time workers .  do small businesses and their workers not deserve the same opportunity ?  importantly , the bill gives ahps the freedom from costly state mandates because small businesses deserve to be treated in the same fashion as large corporations and unions who receive the same exemptions today .  clearly , these mandates are useless to families who have no health coverage in the first place .  if you do not have health care coverage , state mandates requiring health plans to offer specific benefits do you and your family no good at all .  this measure includes strong safeguards to protect american workers .  despite the bipartisan nature of this bill , i would like to correct some of the misinformation that i have heard .  the measure protects against cherry-picking because we make clear that ahps must comply with the 1996 health insurance portability and accountability act , which prohibits group health plans from excluding or charging a higher rate to high-risk individuals with a high claims experience .  under our bill , sick or high-risk groups or individuals can not be denied coverage .  in addition , ahps can not charge higher rates for employers with sicker individuals within the plan except to the extent already allowed by state law where the employer is located .  the bill also includes strict requirements under which only bona fide professional and trade associations can sponsor an association health plan , and , therefore , does not allow sham association plans set up by health insurance companies .  these organizations must be established for purposes other than providing health insurance for at least 3 years .  we in congress have a responsibility to deal with a problem of small businesses who can not afford to provide health insurance because of skyrocketing health care costs .  the u.s. economy is getting stronger by the day , and more and more employers are hiring workers each month .  earlier this month the unemployment rate dropped to its lowest level since september of 2001 and the labor department reported that 3.7 million new jobs have been created since march of 2003 .  that is 25 consecutive months of sustained job creation .  we want to make sure that these workers have the opportunity to receive quality health insurance through their employer , and this bill can help make that happen .  mr. speaker , i reserve the balance of my time .  mr. speaker , i yield myself 30 seconds .  mr. speaker , the gentleman from georgia and i have had a disagreement over this particular provision for several years .  it is very clear in the bill , as i read it , not the way the gentleman from georgia ( mr. norwood )  reads it , and this is where the source of the disagreement comes in terms of how plans can choose groups of employees .  under current erisa law , you are allowed to have different rates for different groups of employees as long as there is a reason other than the health status of that group to have a separate group .  maybe you have a plant located in one part of the state , another plant in another part of the state .  you could have two different rates at those two different plants , just like you can under most state laws and what you can under erisa .  so i look forward to continuing to work with my friend from georgia to resolve our misunderstanding of this issue .  mr. speaker , i reserve the balance of my time .  mr. speaker , i yield myself the balance of my time .  mr. speaker , small employers today have a difficult problem .  they are trying to keep their business alive .  they are trying to make enough money to hire and grow their business and at the same time trying to provide affordable health insurance .  about 60 percent of the 45 million people who have no health insurance work for small businesses of some sort .  but what happens to those small employers in most of these state risk pools ?  they are in the small group coverage area , and guess what happens ?  there may be a provider or two that will offer them insurance .  they are stuck in a small pool , and they pay the highest rates of any group that is out there , unless , unless , one happens to be self-employed .  let us say that they were a realtor , and as a realtor they are self-employed , they are not an employee of a company , and they try to buy health insurance for themselves out in the open market again in these small state risk pools .  here it comes , $ 1 , 500 a month , $ 2 , 000 a month .  and , my goodness , if they are sick , they will not get it at all .  so what we have been proposing now for some 10 years , and the house has passed this on a bipartisan basis at least five times , is to allow businesses and self-employed individuals who belong to bona fide organizations to group together for the purposes of health insurance .  why should a realtor who belongs to the national association of realtors not have an opportunity , whether their state association or the national association wants to put together a package of plans and allow them to choose one of those plans that might fit the kind of coverage that they want , why would we not want to do this ?  we have heard all this shtick about all these plans are lousy , they are low-cost coverage .  no .  these plans would look exactly like the plans that big companies and unions offer today .  everybody in america wants to work for a big company or a union .  why ?  because they have got great health benefits .  and why do they have great health benefits ?  because that is what their employees and that is that their members want .  people do not want to go out and buy low-cost coverage that does not cover anything .  that does not accomplish anything .  so when we look at the opportunity for small businesses to go out and to be able to purchase health insurance for their employees , just like a big company or just like a union under the same set of rules , the same set of rules for small companies that big companies have today , we should not let the perfect become the enemy of the good .  this will not solve the problem of all 45 million of the uninsured , but it will help millions of americans who work for small businesses have a better opportunity at getting good health coverage at competitive prices .  we have heard an awful lot of talk about it does not have this mandate , that mandate , that mandate .  and why do big companies who do not have to have any mandated coverages under erisa , why do they provide those ?  why do they have breast cancer screening ?  why ?  because it makes sense to screen for this to detect it early and to deal with it .  why do they have these benefits that are not mandated ?  why ?  because they make sense to find out early in the illness .  these small companies are going to have the same types of high-quality plans that big companies have today without state mandates , because what happens is every state has a mandate .  some of them have as many as 30 mandated benefits that drive up the cost of health insurance and drive the number of uninsured up as well .  but companies that offer a lot of these benefits , they do so with , as an example , a breast cancer benefit that covers the whole country , one size , not 50 different states done in 50 different ways that they have to find out exactly how it is going to be covered in each of those 50 states .  i have no doubt that the policies that will be offered by these association health plans will , in fact , be high-quality policies at very competitive prices .  as i said before , this bill has passed the house on a number of occasions with broad bipartisan support , and i expect that will occur again today .  so i would ask my colleagues to stand up and vote .  we hope that the other body will eventually take this bill up and move it and to help reduce the number of uninsured americans that we have .  mr. speaker , i thank my colleague for yielding me this time to speak on the substitute that has been offered .  now , if we think that having states regulate insurance in a small group market is a problem with state-mandated benefits , this is the mother of all complicated programs to offer health insurance , because what are we going to do ?  we are going to have the federal government do it .  now , none of us really believes that the federal government ought to be in the business of running big-risk pools and offering plans to small businesses .  secondly , the bill is estimated , and it has changed from last year ; last year there was a $ 50 billion authorization , but it is still going to cost an awful lot of money to do this bill .  one of the most damaging parts , though , is that each employer who would take part in this plan that is being offered would still be subjected to the state mandates on health insurance in their particular state .  there are 1 , 500 state-mandated health benefits around the country .  it also requires that the employer must pay at least 50 percent of the premium .  in most cases , i would imagine the employer would pay far more than that of the premium ; but maybe it is a small company , maybe it is five or six employees , and maybe together they decide , we want to qualify for this , but we will each pick up our own share of the cost .  why would we want to prohibit them from including themselves in this by this type of a requirement ?  it also says that every employer must offer this to every employee who has worked at the company for 3 months .  that seems like a very short period of time , especially in some industries where you have an awful lot of turnover where they would typically require that you wait 6 months before you would qualify .  all this would do would be to drive up the cost .  but one of the most amazing parts of this substitute , we would subsidize this from the federal government and , for employers with 25 or fewer employees , we would give them a subsidy to help entice them into this program .  and , if you qualified , you qualify for a 10-year period .  now , some small company with less than 25 employees may qualify , may get the subsidy and may , over a course of several years , become highly successful .  but under this particular substitute , they would still qualify for the subsidy .  i do not think any of us believe that the federal government ought to be operating a health insurance company .  there are a lot of mechanisms in the private market for this association health plan program to work .  and , again , why do we want to make the perfect the enemy of the good ?  the underlying bill that we have will , in fact , work .  it will allow millions of americans to get better-quality coverage at much more competitive prices than what they get today .  so let us allow the underlying bill to go forward .  let us defeat the substitute .  mr. speaker , i rise in opposition to the gentleman 's motion .  mr. speaker , the most coveted health insurance available to americans is offered by big companies and unions .  all we are trying to do in the underlying bill is to give small employers the same opportunity to provide high-quality health insurance to their employees at competitive prices .  the motion to recommit would require every ahp to cover every mandate known to man , driving up the cost of those policies and making sure that no new employees would ever be covered by an ahp .  there are 45 million americans with no health insurance .  while this will not cover all 45 million americans , it will help some americans who have no access to health insurance today have access to high-quality , competitively priced health insurance .  you can have all the mandates in the world ; but if you do not have health insurance , you get no coverage at all .  no doctors ' visits .  no nothing .  it is a bad motion .  support the underlying bill .  mr. speaker , i thank my friend and colleague on the committee on rules , the gentleman from utah ( mr. bishop )  , for yielding me this time ; and i rise today in support of the rule and the underlying legislation , the small business health fairness act .  mr. speaker , a trip to the doctor should not bust the family budget .  too many of america 's small business employees go without health insurance or pay a big chunk of their paycheck for health care .  this house has acted on four separate occasions in a bipartisan way to pass reforms that will allow small business owners to provide their employees with affordable health insurance options , yet our efforts to help reduce the ranks of the uninsured has not gone forward .  this crucial legislation allows small business owners to have similar purchasing power for health insurance as large corporations .  the creation of association health plans will permit small business owners to band together through a trade association or other method to purchase health insurance for them and their employees .  the ability to provide health insurance is critical for our small businesses to remain competitive .  mr. speaker , workers are frustrated with paying the high cost of health care .  congress needs to finish this job and pass association health plans into law .  i urge my colleagues to support the rule and the underlying legislation .  mr. speaker , i appreciate my friend yielding to me .  mr. speaker , the house will convene on monday at 12 : 30 p.m .  for morning hour and 2 p.m .  for legislative business .  we will consider several measures under suspension of the rules .  a final list of those bills will be sent to members ' offices by the end of the day .  any votes called on these measures will be rolled until 6 : 30 p.m .  on tuesday and the balance of the week , the house will consider additional legislation under suspension of the rules , as well as several measures under a rule : h.r. 525 , the small business health fairness act of 2005 ; h.r. 5 , the health act of 2005 ; and h.r. 22 , the postal accountability and enhancement act .  in addition , we expect to consider h.r. 3045 , the dominican republic-central american free trade agreement sometime later in the week .  finally , i would like to note that we are expecting a very busy week heading into the august recess .  members should expect to work some late nights as we resolve these important pieces of legislation .  mr. speaker , i appreciate the gentleman yielding .  there is no way that we can tell what hour of the day on friday that we might be finished with our work .  as the gentleman knows , next week is going to be a typical pre-district work period week .  we have several bills to consider , as well as multiple potential conference reports .  because of the unpredictability of conference reports , i would hesitate to even make firm commitments for any of the week .  for now , i would note that our plan is to consider both postal reform and small business health plans on tuesday , and after that we will have to see where various components are and how they come together .  mr. speaker , i thank the gentleman for yielding .  as i said earlier , it is very difficult .  certainly we will consult with the minority as to timing .  for instance , right now we think we will have a highway conference report .  there may be an energy conference report .  there could be one to three appropriations conference reports .  it is very difficult today to fashion a schedule that we could give to the members .  i feel very confident by monday we will have a better feel for what the week should look like and , in consultation with the minority , we would have a better idea when the central american free trade agreement can be considered .  but i say to the gentleman that it will be fully discussed with an ample amount of time for debate , and we will just do it when we can get to it .  mr. speaker , i appreciate the gentleman yielding .  i can not say that .  i really do not have any idea .  i know it will be after tuesday , and that is about the best i can give the gentleman .  i thank the gentleman for yielding .  yes , we plan to present the postal reform bill on tuesday .  we think we can do both that and the small business health plan on tuesday .  it is possible that interior , legislative branch , and homeland security conference reports could be presented by next week .  we could bring them to the floor by next week .  if the gentleman will continue to yield , no , we did not list that bill as of yet .  there are still discussions going on about that bill , and until those discussions are concluded , we can not predict when it will come to the floor .  i appreciate the gentleman yielding .  it is possible it could be added to the calendar , but looking at how busy a week we have next week and the controversial issues that we will be bringing to the floor of the house , it is hard to say if we could put that bill on the floor next week .  i appreciate the gentleman yielding .  we will try our best , in consultation with you , to give you some idea of when we could possibly bring that bill , and if it is going to be considered next week and we can fit into the schedule , then certainly we would let you know by probably the end of business monday .  mr. speaker , i appreciate my friend yielding .  i am very encouraged .  i serve on the conference committee , so i am very encouraged by the accomplishments and progress that has been made over the course of this week .  i believe there is really only one major issue left to be resolved by the conferees , and that relates to transit funding .  hopefully , that can be resolved prior to the wednesday night expiration of the current short-term funding measure , and then , as normal , there are a lot of smaller issues that can be resolved by then .  i am very hopeful that we can pass that conference report before we leave here next week .  mr. speaker , i appreciate the gentleman yielding .  everyone is working as hard as they can .  as the gentleman knows , this bill has taken a long time to work out the differences between the house and the senate .  we get very close every time we reach the deadline of an expiration date .  the expiration date is set on wednesday .  everybody is going to be working over the weekend , and we are working as hard as we can with the goal to bring that conference report to the floor before the expiration of the short-term funding measure .  mr. speaker , i appreciate the gentleman yielding .  we are working on it .  we hope to get it done by the end of next week .  it is a very ambitious goal , i must say , to take a bill of this magnitude and , in a matter of 2 weeks , get all the differences worked out between the house and the senate and bring it to the floor .  this is another item that the house and senate are working on through the weekend , and at least encouragement has been brought to my attention by the chairman of the committee on energy and commerce that , with a lot of hard work , it is very possible that we could get this energy conference report to the members for a vote by the end of next week .  mr. speaker , i appreciate the gentleman yielding .  we have not made any decisions yet , but obviously the gentleman knows and members understand that the appropriations process did end with us passing our bills before the july 4 break .  the senate is working on appropriations bills , and we will be doing those conferences as they present themselves .  also , we do know that at least the first week back , we could be looking at the coast guard authorization bill and possibly a research bill from the committee on science .  that is the first week back .  other bills will be considered during the august district work period , and we will be able to make a more firm announcement to the members as to what we anticipate having the first week back and , in addition to that , the second week also .  mr. speaker , i appreciate the gentleman yielding .  the campaign finance committees are still working on those issues .  it is quite possible that we could address those issues in september .  the way that i am watching the schedule of the other body , we will probably be here at least a week or two after october 1 , and we would be working on those issues .  i have every expectation that the committee on ways and means will put out a retirement security bill for us to consider in september or the first of october .  and , i am sure the gentleman remembers , we have a reconciliation process that is ongoing .  we could have a reconciliation bill in that time period .  so those are some of the major issues that we will be facing in september and october .  i thank the gentleman for yielding me this time .  mr. speaker , i rise today in strong support of h. res. 379 and the underlying bill , h.r. 525 , the small business health fairness act of 2005 .  my good friend , the gentleman from new jersey , just spoke about some mandates regarding ob care and , of course , there are mandates that have been passed in the several states , all 50 , in fact , that are very compassionate sounding .  the gentleman from new jersey is right .  many of us have , as former members of state legislatures , voted for mandates .  i am one of them .  in fact , in the state of georgia , there was a mandate , because of managed care intrusion and the requirement that everybody go through a gatekeeper and not to a specialist , that women in the state of georgia , if any health insurance policy was written , they would have direct access to their ob-gyn .  certainly , as an ob-gyn specialist , i liked that mandate .  in fact , i think i voted for that one .  but shortly after that along came the dermatologists and they wanted direct access to everybody who had an itch , to have to be able to go , demand to be seen by a specialist , a dermatologist , rather than their family practitioner .  i want to tell you about a couple of other mandates in the state of georgia .  there was one to require that every woman would have the right to have a blood test to be screened for ovarian cancer .  it is called cea-125 .  any cancer specialist would tell you that that screening test for ovarian cancer is absolutely worthless .  a better mandate would have been to say that anybody over age 30 , any woman , could have an ultrasound done every 6 months to look at the ovaries , but that would be astronomically expensive .  another mandate in the state of georgia says that every baby born in a hospital in the state of georgia has to be screened for sickle cell anemia , even when they are a part of an ethnic group where the percentage of sickle cell anemia is zero .  nada .  these mandates just go and on , and you have got them in all 50 states .  clearly , we need to do something about that because they are driving up the cost of health care .  we need to give people the opportunity to join their other employees in trade associations .  this is a good bill .  it will reduce the rolls of the uninsured by 8 million people .  i commend it to my colleagues on both sides of the aisle .  i urge you to support this rule and pass the sam johnson legislation .  it is a good bill .  it will get people the protection they need and provide health care for so many who do not have it .  mr. speaker , today i rise in strong support of the rule for h.r. 525 , the small business health fairness act of 2005 , offered by the gentleman from texas ( mr. sam johnson ) .  mr. speaker , if we do not act soon , america will face a health care crisis .  health care costs are skyrocketing .  we all know it ; and , unfortunately , so do the ranks of america 's uninsured .  as usual , government is part of the problem .  more freedom and more competition is part of the solution .  with nearly half of the 45 million uninsured americans employed by small businesses , or dependent upon someone who is , h.r. 525 will help more americans get access to the affordable health insurance they need .  h.r. 525 would allow the creation of association health plans to help alleviate the enormous health care burden on america 's small businesses .  they will empower small businesses to join together to bargain with insurance carriers to get health care coverage for their workers at an affordable cost .  no affordable cost , no insurance .  under current law , large employers that self-insure are exempt from state mandates while small businesses are not .  this increases the cost of health insurance up to 13 percent and bars up to one-quarter of the uninsured from acquiring health care .  mr. speaker , that is not right .  small businesses and their employees should have the same right to quality health care insurance that large corporations and unions already enjoy .  the congressional budget office estimates that association health plans could actually reduce premiums for small businesses up to 25 percent .  that could mean an average savings of $ 1 , 000 to $ 2 , 000 for the average family health plan offered by a small business .  that means more people covered , more lives saved .  i urge all my colleagues to support the rule for h.r. 525 and the underlying legislation .  with association health plans , we can dramatically reduce the number of uninsured americans while increasing health care access , affordability , and choice .  mr. speaker , i am pleased to be here today to support the rule to govern h.r. 525 , the small business health fairness act of 2005 .  as costs continue to escalate annually at unprecedented rates , our employers are being forced to drop health care coverage , or not be able to afford it at all .  our small businesses share a large part of that burden because they are forced to shop for health insurance in the costly small group market .  large employers bring bargaining clout to the table when they work with insurance companies .  small businesses have fewer employees and thus have little or no bargaining power .  not only that , but large employers and unions are exempt from burdensome state mandates .  these mandates dictate what health plans must cover and which vary from state to state .  small employers do not have that luxury .  we know that more than 60 percent of the over-40 million uninsured americans either work for a small business or are dependent upon someone who does .  the clear course of action here is to help our small businesses afford health coverage by giving them the same opportunity .  association health plans , or ahps , do just that .  small businesses would be able to group together in bona fide trade associations .  ahps would then be able to use economies of scale to their advantage and provide more affordable health care for working families while avoiding the administrative cost of state mandates .  ahps are expected to save small business owners and their employees as much as 30 percent on their health insurance .  this bipartisan bill makes sense .  the time to act is now .  i urge a `` yes '' vote on this rule .  mr. speaker , i thank the gentleman from ohio for yielding me this time .  as you know , mr. speaker , the cost of providing health care for employees has become the number one issue for small businesses around this country .  it is especially important to me , because in my home state of texas , one in four workers are uninsured .  small businesses have it especially tough because there is an inherent problem in a small number of people .  you need to be able to pool risk to make insurance work .  to make matters worse , there is a lack of competition in the small group health insurance market , allowing a few insurers to charge whatever they want .  that is why we need association health plans .  these ahps would allow small businesses to pool together to purchase health insurance .  so instead of one individual company shopping for health care insurance , they would bring an entire trade association , for example , the u.s. chamber of commerce , to the table with much better bargaining power .  however , pooling risk and buying in bulk is not enough .  if your association had members all across the united states , you would have to abide by 50 different sets of mandated benefits in order to offer your insurance .  not only is that a headache , but it is more costly .  some of the mandates that have been enacted by state legislatures include infertility treatment and alternative health solutions such as acupuncture .  these mandates drive up the cost of premiums .  to resolve this , ahps would allow small businesses to buy insurance under the same terms that large corporations and unions enjoy today .  erisa , a law that governs employer benefits , lets these sort of self-insured plans use one set of federal rules , not 50 state rules .  talk about a quick way to lower administrative costs .  and lower administrative costs , mr. speaker , means lower premiums , up to 30 percent lower by some estimates , and that means affordable health care for employers and their employees alike .  so who would not want ahps to pass ?  some critics say ahps will be an opportunity for fly-by-night groups that front as insurance companies and then leave employers with unpaid claims .  the ahp bill in both the house and the senate has tough safeguards to protect small businesses and their employees .  a bona fide trade organization must have been in existence for 3 years before enactment of the law in order to offer an ahp .  and there are federal solvency standards set up for these health plans , including requirements for a reserve fund and stop-loss coverage .  this is beyond and above what erisa requires .  moreover , the department of labor would be charged with the oversight of these plans , and the bill gives them the power to pursue criminal penalties against those who commit fraud .  the department of labor has testified in hearings that they are up to the task and support the legislation .  who else ?  groups that have worked so hard to get coverage for their particular treatment mandated by state legislatures do not want ahps to be exempt from the 50 different state laws .  let me say it plainly : that is the point of the legislation .  one uniform set of benefits lowers administrative costs .  if it is good enough for large corporations and unions , it ought to be good enough for small businesses .  mr. speaker , ahps are a big step in the right direction for our hard-working families who need health insurance now .  mr. speaker , i reserve the balance of my time .  mr. speaker , we have heard it over and over again today on the floor .  too many working americans have a job , but are uninsured because their employers can not afford to purchase quality health insurance benefits for their workers .  this bill addresses the two most important issues in the health care reform debate : cost and access .  h.r. 525 would , one , increase small businesses ' bargaining power with health care providers ; two , give them much-needed freedom from costly state-mandated benefit packages ; and , three , lower their overhead costs by as much as 30 percent .  our small businesses are denied the ability to purchase health coverage with the benefits large multistate companies and unions have enjoyed for decades .  this bill fixes that problem .  by pooling their resources , increasing their bargaining power , ahps will help small businesses reduce their health insurance costs .  as the members have heard me say before , if it is good enough for wall street , it is good enough for main street .  small businesses in most states are stuck with disproportionately higher costs because they have to choose from fewer than five providers .  so ahps offer them a new option to choose from .  most importantly , ahps will expand access to quality health care for the people for whom it is currently out of reach : uninsured working families .  this bill has had unwavering support in the house for nearly a decade now .  the other body is taking a serious look at the legislation this year , and it is a priority in the president 's health care agenda .  i look forward to working with our colleagues from the other body to make this bill law this year .  the problem is getting worse every day .  small businesses need our help now .  let us vote `` yes '' on h.r. 525 .  mr. speaker , i yield myself such time as i may consume .  mr. speaker , as the number of uninsured americans continues to increase and health insurance costs continue to rise by double digits annually , it is clear that something must be done .  i commend our friends across the aisle for coming up with a plan they think works .  while i have great respect for the gentleman from new jersey ( ranking member andrews ) and the gentleman from wisconsin ( mr. kind )  , i have to disagree with them .  their substitute will have the unintended consequence of raising , not lowering , costs for small businesses trying to offer health insurance .  it will impose new mandates on employers and saddle the american public with yet another government program to fund .  the proponents of the plan claim that the new `` small employer health benefits plan '' is modeled after ours here in the federal government .  unfortunately , unlike the federal employee health benefit plan , health insurance provided under the democrat substitute would be subject to more than 1 , 500 state mandates that make up 15 percent of the rising costs of health insurance .  that increased cost would likely be funded by higher taxes , adding another burden to small businesses .  and on top of that , the substitute would force small businesses to deal with a host of new mandates .  their substitute mandates employers provide health coverage to every employee who has been employed for more than 3 months .  it mandates that employers pay 50 percent of the health care premiums for employees .  it mandates that they cover the dependents of their workers .  more mandates are supposed to lower costs ?  the democrat substitute just does not make sense .  in contrast , ahps utilize the strengths of the employer-based system , the private market , competition , economy of scale enjoyed by large union and employer plans , and erisa 's preemption of state mandates , to lower costs .  mr. speaker , ahps are supported by our nation 's small businesses .  the nfib , the national retail federation ; the national association of wholesalers and distributors ; the national restaurant association ; associated builders and contractors ; national association of homebuilders ; the united states chamber of commerce , and others are strongly supportive of this legislation .  i hope my colleagues will join me in offering assistance to our nation 's small businesses and their workers by supporting ahps and opposing the democrat substitute .  mr. speaker i reserve the balance of my time .  mr. speaker , i reserve the balance of my time .  mr. speaker , i reserve the balance of my time .  mr. speaker , do i have the right to close ?  mr. speaker , i reserve the balance of my time .  mr. speaker , i support the rule , and i support h.r. 525 .  the number one problem facing small businesses today is the skyrocketing cost of health insurance .  association health plans are a big part of the solution .  i met with many small business people in my hometown of orlando , florida , and they told me they need association health plans .  i agree with them , and here is why : of the 45 million americans without health insurance , 60 percent are small business employees and their families .  they do not have health insurance because their small business employers can not afford it .  if we would allow these small businesses to join together , they could have the same bargaining power as large fortune 500 corporations , which could lower their health insurance premiums by up to 30 percent .  association health plans will increase access to health care for millions of americans now without insurance .  it certainly is an issue that is personal to me .  i had the happy privilege of flying down to orlando , florida , with president bush on air force one on march 18 of this year .  he asked me what , if anything , he could do to help small businesses in my area .  i told him what the small businesses told me : the number one thing they want is association health plans , and he pledged to support it and use his bully pulpit to help it get through the senate .  i also authored a small business bill of rights that passed this house back in april .  it called for the passage of association health plans , fixing the death tax , and cracking down on frivolous lawsuits .  this house is on record as supporting that .  it is time for us to take the lead today and help small business people provide health insurance to their employees .  vote `` yes '' on the rule and vote `` yes '' on h.r. 525 .  i urge my colleagues to do these things .  mr. speaker , as the chairman of the small business committee , our nation 's small business men and women tell me over and over that finding accessible and affordable quality health care is their number one priority for themselves and their employees .  i have heard from thousands of small employers in america who have been pleading for options to help them manage their surging health care costs .  small business owners tell me regularly how they struggle to provide their workers health insurance , but each year they face double digit increases .  `` mom and pop '' businesses tell me how they want to provide healthcare for their employees , but every single year it gets more difficult .  many are giving up .  our nation 's entrepreneurs , whose ingenuity and hard work ethic have driven the american economy , have run out of options to battle this crisis .  they need our help .  and today , we bring forward a great option -- association health plans -- to help them control these outrageous costs and continue offering vital health insurance to their employees and their families .  in march of this year , i held a hearing on ahps .  the coca cola bottlers association testified they have long offered ahps .  however , in 1990 , they had to stop offering ahps to members with under 100 employees because of the disparity of law from state to state .  those small employers have incurred increased premiums of between 20-25 percent per year .  for those bottlers employing over 100 workers and who still were able to maintain an ahp , they only had an average increase of 9 percent a year .  the proof is irrefutable .  ahps work .  i urge all of my colleagues to support h.r. 525 .  give hope to america 's entrepreneurs .  vote for h.r. 525 .  mr. speaker , i thank the chairman very much for yielding me this time .  mr. speaker , it is my understanding that h.r. 525 is supposed to decrease the cost of health insurance for small businesses that can not afford it today .  well , i support that .  that is a good goal .  all of us support that .  yet , unfortunately , i believe that in this bill that has been undermined a little bit , and my logic is fairly simple .  as i read it , in section 805 of the bill , it allows an ahp to preempt state-level patient protection laws that prevent cherry-picking against small businesses with sick employees .  now , that troubles me a great deal .  look at the bill .  line 8 through 14 gives us the right , and line 21 through 22 takes it away .  sure , everybody can buy an ahp .  it is just if you have anybody sick , you are in serious trouble , because the premium is going to be so high you can not afford it .  after all , h.r. 525 is supposed to allow small businesses to come together to form large pools and purchase affordable health care through an association .  that is a good idea .  this makes sense , since large employers use this concept under erisa to provide employees good rates , regardless of preexisting conditions .  but in my opinion we , somewhere along the way , allowed this very good idea to be corrupted by a very bad provision , a sort of fly in the buttermilk of health care reform , in the form of section 805 .  mr. speaker , 49 out of 50 states have instituted at least some patient protections that prevent insurers from using health status to discriminate against patients .  yet in plain english it appears to me that section 805 allows an ahp to preempt those rating laws .  this simply makes no sense .  this is the bottom line : a small business owner in remission from cancer likely can not get health insurance for himself , his family , or his employees if he lives in a state that allows for rating based on health status .  will that small business owner be able to afford high-quality health insurance from an ahp if h.r. 525 becomes law ?  based on the language as i understand it , as i believe it to be true , he will not be able to get that insurance .  now , i believe that if h.r. 525 becomes law , it may even be much harder for that employer to get insurance .  why is that ?  because all other employers with healthy employees will be in the ahps .  i do not believe that is the intention of this bill .  i hope i am wrong .  i am going to vote for this bill .  i am going to vote for it to move it forward , and i dearly hope i am wrong , and i hope that my chairman is right .  but if time proves my position correct , i want these comments on the record so we will know exactly where to go to fix this when the milk turns sour .  mr. speaker , i appreciate this opportunity to speak on behalf of the rule and the underlying legislation .  mr. speaker , i would like to just mention a personal story .  i have a son-in-law who manages 150 stores .  they are part of a franchise and are spread across 40 different states .  if they have to purchase health care store by store , it is prohibitively expensive .  their costs are going up 10 to 20 percent a year .  one of the previous speakers said it may not add a whole lot of people , but what is happening is we are losing more and more people out of health care plans each year because small businesses simply can not afford it .  if they can band together , those 150 stores , and pool their resources and have 500 employees in a pool , they have a chance to keep their health care .  i think it is critical .  mr. speaker , 60 percent of all americans work for small businesses , and this is key to this legislation .  small businesses are particularly important to rural areas like nebraska .  the measure would do three things : one , increase small business ' bargaining power with health care providers ; number two , give them freedom from costly state-mandated benefit packages .  in many cases , the state regulations simply stifle the health care packages .  and , number three , lower their overhead cost by as much as 30 percent .  republicans and democrats alike have joined together in each of the last two congresses to pass this legislation .  i urge support of the underlying rule and the bill .  mr. speaker , i rise in support of h.r. 525 , the small business health fairness act .  this legislation would allow small businesses to pool their resources into what are known as association health plans , ahps , to purchase health insurance .  pooled alliances , including ahps , help control health care costs by permitting individuals to use their collective bargaining power to win cost concessions from insurance companies .  these alliances also achieve economies of scale for administrative functions -- substantially cutting overhead costs , which currently amount to between 30 and 40 cents of every premium dollar paid by small businesses to insurers .  purchasing alliances have been a popular response in many states to the problems many self-employed and small business owners have had securing affordable health insurance for themselves or their employees .  while i sensitive to the concerns many disease advocacy groups have about this legislation , the fact is this legislation provides the same exemption from state benefit mandates for small businesses already enjoyed by large employers .  the cost savings from avoiding benefit mandates has been estimated to be between 4 and 13 percent .  this could make a huge difference for small businesses looking to offer their employees health insurance .  because small businesses are extremely cost-sensitive , studies indicate that even a 5 percent reduction in costs will result in a 10 to 15-percent increase in small businesses offering health insurance .  the legislation also protects against these plans `` cherry-picking '' the healthiest employees by restricting the ability of self-insured health plans to be qualified as an ahp .  unless a self-insured plan is in existence before the date of enactment , it would be required to offer membership to a broad cross-section of trades or to employers representing at least one higher-risk occupation .  additionally , ahps must comply with the health insurance portability and accountability act , which prohibits group health plans from excluding high-risk individuals with high claims experience .  the bottom line is this legislation will help small businesses , which are the engine in our economy , provide health insurance to their employees .  i urge the passage of this bill .  mr. speaker , an issue i often hear about from my constituents is concern about the high cost of health insurance and the need for affordable insurance coverage .  we all know health insurance premiums continue to increase substantially each year .  as such , many small businesses are unable to afford health insurance for their employees .  furthermore , for those who can afford insurance for their employees , rising costs make u.s. products more expensive , harming u.s. competitiveness and costing american jobs .  small businesses are the backbone of our economy , but the financial viability of many small businesses is being hurt by the escalating costs of health insurance .  this hurts job creation and economic growth .  the u.s. small business administration 's office of advocacy found that administrative expenses for small health plans make up about 35 percent of total costs .  this is not good for small business owners , their employees , or the american economy .  congress must address this problem , which is why i support h.r. 525 , the small business health fairness act .  by passing h.r. 525 congress will be leveling the playing field between small businesses , the self-employed , and large corporations .  this allows organizations of individuals and businesses to enter into association health plans , ahps .  under ahps , small business can pool their resources and purchase group health care similar to the way large corporations do today .  they can get better bargaining power in terms of costs and benefits for their employees .  it gives workers , who do not have health insurance today , the opportunity to obtain health insurance coverage .  whether it is a small business a trade association , a farm bureau , or a local community organization that is seeking to purchase more affordable health insurance , this legislation will help them .  they can join together with other groups and purchase health insurance at much more affordable rates and have better negotiating power with insurance providers .  it is generally reported that there are over 40 million people in america without health insurance at any given time .  according to the congressional budget office , a more accurate estimate of the number of people who were uninsured for all of an entire year is 21 million to 31 million .  regardless , almost 60 percent of those individuals are employed by a small business .  as health care costs increase , fewer employers and working families will be able to afford coverage , and more americans will be without health insurance .  those who work for small businesses should have the same type of access to health insurance that their counterparts in large corporations already enjoy .  i urge congress to pass h.r. 525 .  congress must pass this bipartisan legislation to give much needed relief to american small businesses , farmers , and hard working families .  mr. speaker , i thank the gentleman for yielding me this time and for his work on this issue and so many other important issues .  when i go home , and especially as a physician in congress , when i go home and talk to small businesses , they say whatever you do , whatever you do , do something about my health care costs .  make it so i can help my employees get insurance .  mr. speaker , 45 million uninsured we have heard , 60 percent or more of those are employed currently , and why do they not have health insurance .  either they are self-employed or they work for small businesses so they have to purchase health insurance in the individual market .  so what is the solution ?  pool together .  six people can buy insurance for cheaper than one person ; 60 cheaper than 6 ; 600 cheaper than 60 ; and 6 million cheaper than 600 , and it can be quality insurance , and h.r. 525 is a step in the right direction .  we have heard that the number of uninsured will go up , the cost for the premium will go up 23 percent .  i will take that wager .  this is the same crowd that said welfare reform would not work .  i will take that bet .  once again , the rhetoric we have heard is disgraceful .  we have heard that republicans do not care about women with breast cancer .  come on .  what kind of nonsense is this .  who do you think will be making the decisions about the kinds of provisions that will be in that insurance policy ?  it is patients .  it is patients in the associations , and they are much closer i would argue to the individuals making decisions about what is going to be included under those plans than human resources officers in large companies .  h.r. 525 is a step in the right direction .  i encourage my colleagues on both sides of the aisle to support it .  mr. speaker , 45 million americans lack health insurance today , and the number is rapidly growing .  twenty-six percent of all adults in louisiana lack health insurance , and 22.6 percent of all working adults in louisiana lack insurance .  it has been said over here that we need the insurance mandates to protect the patient .  insurance mandates are meaningless without insurance .  we need a free market health care system that allows doctors to make decisions and not insurance companies .  fifty-two percent of louisiana 's small businesses offer health insurance , and the number is constantly declining .  we must act to ensure that americans can afford the health insurance that they need , and we can do so by passing h.r. 525 , the small business health fairness act .  this bill will create association health plans that will allow small businesses to band together through bona fide trade associations to become larger purchasers of health insurance , thus giving small businesses the same benefits that fortune 500 companies now enjoy .  the congressional budget office has estimated that small businesses obtaining insurance through ahps would average premium reductions of 13 percent and some as high as 25 percent reductions .  overhead costs alone would decrease by as much as 30 percent under these plans .  what is wrong with this ?  this is offering affordable coverage to workers .  there is additional research that also shows that up to 8.5 million americans who are currently uninsured would become insured under ahps .  and this bill offers very many protections , consumers protections and protections with regard to solvency , as outlined .  if we are going to lower costs and increase accessibility to health care , we need to create choices and enhance competition .  this bill is an important first step , and i urge its passage .  i thank the gentleman for yielding me this time .  mr. speaker , first of all , i have respect for our insurance commissioners , but i want to say that three out of the last four in louisiana went to jail .  so that is no automatic protection .  i think other states have had similar problems .  the preemption language in the bill only grants two limited exceptions from state laws that regulate insurance .  fully insured ahps are exempted from state laws that would , one , preclude them from establishing an ahp ; or , two , prevent them from designing their own benefit package .  these two exemptions are narrowly tailored to allow ahps to set a uniform benefit package that can be offered across state lines and to ensure that state regulators will not pass laws that prohibit the establishment of ahps .  state laws that regulate insurance and do not impact benefit design will apply , including prompt pay , external review , and solvency requirements .  assistant secretary ann combs testified to this at a march 2003 subcommittee on employer-employee relations hearing .  at that hearing she noted that , quote , `` fully insured ahps would purchase insurance products with solvency standards and consumer protections regulated by the states. '' further specifying which state laws are not preempted is unnecessary .  all state laws will apply except those that prevent a uniform benefit design or prevent an ahp from existing .  consumer protection laws that states see fit to pass will apply to fully insured ahps .  no further change in the legislation is necessary .  benefit mandates , as we have discussed , will be preempted as is the case for unions and large employers .  i think we need to have that information .  i am all for choices and the gentleman 's plan is intriguing , it is interesting ; but i think it may be premature .  mr. speaker , i rise to applaud the house for passing h.r. 525 , the small business health fairness act of 2005 yesterday , which will help provide better access to health care coverage for small businesses .  small businesses and self-employed citizens have long been an integral and valuable part of the american economy .  we should assist in their growth and improvement in whatever ways we can .  the primary achievement of this bill will be the establishment of certified federal association health plans , or ahps .  ahps will increase small business bargaining power with health care providers and allow them to offer the kind of health care coverage that big business has long been able to provide .  second , ahps will give employers freedom from costly state-mandated benefit packages .  taken together , these features of the new ahps will enlarge the number of insured americans up to 8 million people .  as republicans , we are working to increase the number of insured americans , since as many as one in seven americans is uninsured .  moreover , the most recent u.s. census statistics show that increases in the number of uninsured employees comes solely from declining coverage in the small business sector .  the small business health fairness act is a strong step in the right direction , and i am pleased to have passed it .  mr. speaker , i rise today to address the issue of health care insurance in america , its rising costs and a solution that will help to reduce the cost for many americans .  our nation is in the midst of a health care crisis .  this crisis affects pennsylvania 's health care professionals , their patients and the doctor-patient relationship .  this crisis is especially acute in my district in southeastern pennsylvania .  last week i held a small business committee forum in my district .  the health care crisis and how it affects small businesses was the topic of the forum .  the gentleman from illinois ( mr. manzullo )  was kind enough to come to the forum and to apply his many years of experience to the issue , and i thank the gentleman for his contribution and for his insights .  pennsylvania 's health care problems are among the worst in the nation .  doctors in pennsylvania are faced with some of the highest medical malpractice insurance rates in the country .  because they can not afford to pay for malpractice insurance , many pennsylvania physicians are practicing defensive medicine or simply shutting their doors , moving to other states or retiring .  young doctors establishing a new practice are reluctant to consider pennsylvania because of malpractice insurance problems .  over 50 percent of pennsylvanians say their family has had difficulty in paying the cost of health care or obtaining health insurance coverage .  since 2001 , the cost of health insurance has risen 59 percent , and employers who offer health care benefits are paying an average of 11 percent more for health insurance premiums than they did in 2004 .  this is the fourth year in a row of double digit increases with no end in sight .  from a national perspective , the statistics are staggering .  the labor department has recently reported that 3.7 million new jobs were created since may of 2003 , marking 25 consecutive months of positive job growth for the u.s. economy .  unfortunately , there are 41 million americans who are without health care insurance .  nearly 60 percent of the 41 million uninsured americans are employed by small businesses or are dependent on someone who is employed by a small business .  as health care costs continue to increase , fewer employers and working families will be able to obtain coverage , and the number of uninsured will inevitably rise .  for a nation of the 21st century , and in a country that boasts the world 's largest and most productive economy , this is simply unacceptable .  the skyrocketing cost of health care is making employer-sponsored health coverage harder and harder for businesses , especially small businesses , to provide to their employees .  this fact makes it nearly impossible for many hard working families to receive affordable care that they need and deserve .  i am proud to say the house republicans have a plan to increase and improve america 's access to affordable and high quality health care .  association health plans will help employers , especially small business owners , afford quality health care for their employees and their families , will improve the quality of life and provide much needed health security .  ahps address both health care access and cost by allowing small businesses to create associations that may jointly purchase health insurance for their workers at a lower cost .  specifically , ahps establish eligibility requirements so that all ahps are required to offer fully-insured and/or self-insured benefits .  ahps encourage broad participation and coverage by prohibiting discrimination of any kind against certain `` high-risk '' individuals .  ahps will cover specific diseases , maternal and newborn hospitalization and mental health issues .  ahps will be exempt from costly and burdensome state health insurance regulations to enable greater and more effective coverage .  ahps will be financially strong and responsible by reserving enough funds for potential costs and other obligations .  ahps have enjoyed the support of a wide coalition , including the u.s. chamber of commerce , the national federation of independent businesses , the american farm bureau , the associated builders and contractors , the latino coalition , the national black chamber of commerce , the national association of women business owners and the national restaurant association .  these organizations have endorsed ahps because ahps will reduce health insurance costs for employers .  for example , insurers selling directly to small employers typically incur administrative costs of 20 to 25 percent .  by contrast , the congressional budget office has estimated that small businesses that obtain insurance through ahps will save an average of 13 percent .  other estimates have indicated cost savings could be as much as 25 percent .  ahps will significantly reduce the number of uninsured americans .  ahps , according to a study by the research corporation , estimates that up to 8.5 million uninsured workers and dependents could gain coverage from ahp legislation .  and this study confirms even a small cost savings can result in large increases in purchasing power for all of our small businesses .  the cbo has concluded , mr. speaker , that association health plan legislation would extend insurance coverage for up to two million uninsured american workers with no cost to the government .  i encourage my colleagues to support the small business health insurance act , h.r. 525 , when it comes to the floor this week .  mr. speaker , on that i demand the yeas and nays .  mr. speaker , i thank the gentleman from georgia for yielding me this time .  as the person who represents the area that jessica lunsford grew up in and knowing her family very , very well , all of america was focused on jessica when she turned up missing .  then we found out that she was the victim of a predator , a very , very sick , depraved man .  jessica is no longer with us ; and i commend the members of congress , including yourself , mr. speaker , with whom i have worked very closely , and certainly the gentleman from wisconsin ( mr. sensenbrenner )  , the chairman of the committee on the judiciary , in putting together the children 's safety act .  no parent should worry when their child is at a playground whether or not a sexual predator is nearby .  there were many loopholes in the various state laws in jessica 's case .  the perpetrator came into florida from georgia .  he registered at one point but then transferred his address .  the probation officer never knew that he had a prior offense of violating children .  had that probation officer known that , he never would have allowed the offender anywhere near a school .  that is but one of the very excellent facets of this bill in addition to having the nationwide registration and availability on line so that parents , so that grandparents , so that anyone can go and find out who the offenders are in their neighborhood so that every family member can have a modicum of safety in knowing who is nearby .  it also , as i mentioned , does allow for probation officers to know about a prior offense .  now , why is that important ?  i firmly believe , mr. speaker , that jessica lunsford would be here today had the probation officer known that .  additionally , the bill also picks up on some language that i had in the jessica lunsford act , and part of this bill is named after her , that provides for more frequent contacts , a mailing or random mailings to the sexual offenders so that they have to report .  if the mailer is not returned , if they do not fill out the form and send it back , at that point police will be alerted to be on the lookout for them because they are not at their last known address .  with all of the various facets of the bill , many members who are concerned , who have lost children to these offenders , to these violators of our most innocent children , every single member who put a bill in and those who signed on as cosponsors realize the importance of protecting our streets , of protecting our families , of protecting our children from these lowlifes who prey on our most innocent young children .  i certainly support the bill .  i want to make sure that the rule is adopted so we can go on , pass this bill , send it over to the senate ; and , hopefully , they , too , will see the need , the absolute imperative need that america has in demanding that this bill pass so that our children will be protected .  mr. chairman , that is too good an offer to turn down .  mr. chairman , i would simply point out that this applies only to the sentencing portion of the hearing or the sentencing portion of the trial , not the guilt or innocent phase .  we are not limiting habeas corpus at all on that phase .  mr. chairman , as co-chairman of the congressional missing and exploited children 's caucus and an original author of the sex offender registration and notification measure included in this bill , i rise in strong support of h.r. 3132 , the children 's safety act of 2005 .  mr. speaker , we have all heard the names : jessica lunsford , jetseta gage , sarah lunde , megan kanka , jacob wetterling , just to name a few .  all beautiful children carrying with them the hopes and dreams of every young child in this country .  all taken away from their parents and their futures , killed by sex offenders .  this is an important piece of legislation we are faced with today .  it is probably one of the most tragic things any family will ever deal with .  while katrina , the hurricane , and judge roberts are much in the headlines , below the fold seems to be daily an occurrence of a violent act against our children .  it is time we get tough .  i have said repeatedly that in this country we track library books better than we do sex offenders .  this bill , thanks to the good efforts of the gentleman from wisconsin ( mr. sensenbrenner )  and others , seeks to correct that .  this bill is not a knee-jerk reaction .  we have worked over 1 year on this legislation with the national center for missing and exploited children , the u.s. department of justice , and other federal agencies .  it is horrific that in this country we are experiencing these untold tragedies throughout our nation ; but we can do better , and in this bill we will do better .  i would like to thank the gentleman from wisconsin ( mr. sensenbrenner )  and his staff , mike volkov , for working tirelessly to produce this comprehensive child protection legislation .  this bill has indeed many fathers and mothers .  it is for the children , though , that we work and we labor .  i have often said this bill is a labor of love .  yet it is a labor of shame that we have these kinds of incidents of violence and tragedies affecting our kids .  i would like to thank bradley schreiber , my legislative director , who has worked so many hours in trying to perfect and work alongside staff to make this legislation possible ; ernie allen from the national center for missing and exploited children ; john walsh from america 's most wanted , who has led a crusade for well over 20 years since the death of his beautiful son adam in florida .  john walsh has brought a scrutiny to child protection legislation unlike any other human being .  finally , and most important , i want to recognize the victims ' parents .  it is their hard work and determination , their tears and their frustration , and their fears for their other children that has brought this bill to the floor so quickly .  they took away from their own tragedies a chance to help fellow americans protect other children ; and for that we are entirely grateful .  mr. chairman , these are not petty criminals .  these are sex offenders , and they must be dealt with accordingly .  mr. chairman , reclaiming my time , i wish the perpetrator would have thought about the penalties before they committed the crime .  the minimum mandatory may tie the hands of judges , but it will , in fact , tie the hands of the predator .  they know full well before they are released what the requirements are , and if there is confusion , it is the perpetrator 's fault .  i do not want it to be relied upon the victim to say the victim should have known he may have been a perpetrator but we were not registered .  mr. chairman , i rise today in strong support of h.r. 3132 , the children 's safety act of 2005 .  mr. chairman , as a father and a grandfather i am often reminded of the dangers that surround my loved ones .  specifically , the growing threat that sexual predators pose to our nation 's children and their families represents an area where our criminal justice system has failed the american people .  in order to effectively protect our loved ones , we must provide the american public with unfettered access to know who these dangerous criminals are and where they are living .  if a picture is worth a thousand words , then a comprehensive nationwide publicly accessible database is worth at least that many lives .  i was pleased that chairman sensenbrenner included provisions from my bill , h.r. 95 , that would create a national , comprehensive , and publicly accessible sex offender database into this comprehensive piece of legislation .  additionally , i was delighted at the level of bi-partisanship that both my bill and today 's legislation have received and i would like to personally thank mr. pomeroy from north dakota for his leadership and support .  also , i would like to extend my gratitude to organizations like the big brothers and big sisters of america and the safe now project for their endorsements of h.r. 95 's national database provision .  h.r. 3132 directly addresses the shortcomings of our criminal justice system and aims to make our country safer and more secure from those that would prey on our most vulnerable and our most prized assets -- our children .  with over 500 , 000 registered sex offenders and countless others which remain unknown , law enforcement and corrections personnel will have additional resources at their disposal to prevent and solve these types of crimes .  additionally , this bill strengthens the criminal code for sexually violent crimes and creates more stringent regulations which convicted offenders must adhere to in order to ensure proper monitoring .  americans have heard the heart wrenching stories of innocent children being harmed by predators , and we must make every effort to ensure that tragedies like these never happen again .  mr. chairman , today we must come together to make certain that our children grow up in a safe and secure environment and that parents are unafraid to let their children play in the neighborhood because they have the information they need to protect them .  knowledge is power , and today we have an opportunity before us to supply the american public with the tools necessary to protect themselves , their family , and their friends against those that would commit these heinous crimes .  i urge all of my colleagues to cast their vote in support of this legislation and collectively answer the american public 's call to provide them with additional resources to combat these predators before another life is lost and tragedy befalls another family .  mr. speaker , by direction of the committee on rules , i call up house resolution 436 and ask for its immediate consideration .  mr. speaker , i yield such time as she may consume to the gentlewoman from florida ( ms. ginny brown-waite ) , who has been extremely active in the crafting of this legislation .  her bill , which she will talk about , is actually included in this overall comprehensive bill .  and she knows well , if not better than all of us , about these matters because some of these heinous acts occurred within the last year in her great state of florida .  mr. speaker , i yield myself such time as i may consume ; and , in closing , i would like to begin by saying that there are very few matters in our society that are as clear-cut as this one .  child abduction and abuse is not a new problem .  it did not begin yesterday , and it will not end tomorrow .  this is a continuing struggle to protect our children ; and i truly believe that it will help protect my grandchildren , 7-year-old twins ali and hannah manning , 5-year-old hank manning , iv , and 10-month-old grey collins .  the recent tragedies that have grabbed the attention and sympathy of the nation only serve as a grim and poignant reminder that our work is not done and we must continue to do everything that we can to stop the abuse and exploitation of our children .  as i noted in my opening statement , this is commonsense , comprehensive legislation that attacks the problem in many different ways , from expanding the definition of sex offenders , to strengthening law enforcement 's tools , to increasing mandatory minimums for child abusers and kidnappers .  additionally , i believe this legislation protects the constitutional rights of the accused while ensuring that the guilty see justice and the victims are protected .  again , i want to thank the gentleman from wisconsin ( mr. sensenbrenner )  and the committee on the judiciary for putting this bill together .  h.r. 3132 is sound , well-crafted legislation .  i am confident that this legislation will empower the innocent over the guilty , victims over the predators .  with its passage , our country , our children and our grandchildren , will be the winners .  for that reason i urge my colleagues to support this rule and the underlying bill .  mr. speaker , i yield back the balance of my time , and i move the previous question on the resolution .  the previous question was ordered .  the resolution was agreed to .  a motion to reconsider was laid on the table .  mr. chairman , i rise today to speak in support of the children 's safety act of 2005 .  this legislation , if passed , will close the loopholes in the current system that allow sexual predators to evade law enforcement .  it will enhance the current sex offender registration and community notification law .  it will create a comprehensive national system for sex offender registration , improve information exchange between states when sex offenders move from state to state , and increase penalties for failing to comply with the registration law .  i would like to commend the chairman for bringing this outstanding package to the floor today .  i am very grateful that the chairman has included several provisions from a bill that i introduced entitled the sexual predator sentencing act of 2005 .  these provisions would toughen several existing sentencing guidelines and keep sex offenders off the street .  provisions incorporated from my bill will increase the criminal penalties and establish mandatory minimums for those that harm our children whether it is over the internet or in person .  strong laws that hold the criminal accountable are a vital component in the effort to protect children .  those who abduct children are often serial offenders who have already been convicted of similar offenses .  strong sentencing is an essential component in any effort to fight crimes against children .  this legislation contains many vital provisions in protecting our children from these violent predators .  our children must be protected against repeat sexual offenders .  the children 's safety act of 2005 should be passed to keep sexual predators behind bars and our children safe .  mr. chairman , i thank the gentleman for yielding me time .  more importantly , i thank the gentleman for his great leadership on the subject of child safety .  mr. chairman , when i came to this house i hoped that i would have the chance to make a difference in the area of crimes against kids , and thanks to the leadership of the gentleman from wisconsin ( mr. sensenbrenner )  i have had this opportunity .  in fact , we have all had this opportunity .  we have made great strides in recent years : the amber alert system ; two strikes and you are out for child molesters ; the debbie smith act which we passed last session which will make sure that our dna databases are up to date and more usable and we will have better training and education for those health care professionals and law enforcement professionals who work in this field .  but , sadly , we have been reminded in recent months that despite all the work that we have done we have a long way to go .  dru sjodin , jessica lunsford , sara hunde and , sadly , other names have reminded us painfully , tragically that there is a lot of work to do .  the children 's safety act is , in my view , a great stride towards doing what we can and what we must to protect our kids from those who would prey upon them .  first off , it has tough penalties .  it does have tough penalties .  it does have mandatory minimums , because i believe and so many people believe that we have to send a clear , unmistakable signal that those who prey upon our kids will not be tolerated .  secondly , we increased the size of the dna database , which means that we give to law enforcement professionals the tools they need to track down these monitors and to put them away , to put them behind bars .  and , third , and i believe most importantly , we expand the use of the sex offender registry and increased notification requirements .  we take that registry system nationwide , we make it accessible online , and we close up some of the loopholes that , sadly , have led to some of the crimes that we have all heard about .  i would like to speak briefly about one of those loopholes that people in my home state of wisconsin have learned about tragically .  the situation , the case , the story of amie zyla which has led to the amie zyla provisions in this bill .  the case of miss zyla , she was a young girl in the county of waukesha , wisconsin , when she was assaulted brutally by a young offender .  he was found guilty .  he was sentenced to a juvenile facility .  but when he turned 18 he was released ; and when he was released , because he had committed that act as a juvenile , the record was sealed .  law enforcement was not allowed to notify the community that they were having released back into the midst of this community a sex offender , a dangerous sex offender .  the assailant went on to hold himself out as a youth minister ; and , as you can guess , he preyed upon a number of children , destroyed lives , damaging families and causing so much terror .  in fact , amie zyla was not notified of the release of this man until she saw him on tv , actually saw him on the news , and there was his face and she realized for the first time that the man who had done so much damage to her was back out on the street right where she was .  under this bill , we say that if the crime committed by the juvenile offender was so serious that it would have qualified for reporting under the sex offender registry if he were an adult , then that means that law enforcement has the ability , not the obligation but the ability , to notify the community when that sex offender is released back into the community .  that is about giving tools to our parents , to our families , to our community leaders , to those organizations that are so important to us , giving them the tools to prevent these acts from occurring again ; and nothing is more important .  now , mr. chairman , a lot of numbers have already been tossed around and will be tossed around in the coming debate .  you have heard one out of five girls has been sexually exploited before reaching adulthood .  we have heard that 67 percent of all victims of sexual assault are juveniles .  but i want to suggest to you that this is not about the numbers and that people will toss around the numbers , but we can not tell if those numbers are accurate because we know that these crimes are the most underreported crimes in society .  my guess is and most experts will tell you that the damage that is done , the number of crimes is far in excess of any of the studies that are out there .  more importantly , numbers do not tell the true story .  each child who is attacked and assaulted by one of these offenders represents a life damaged , an innocence stolen , and , all too often , sadly , tragically , a family destroyed .  mr. chairman , we need to pass this legislation .  we need to give tools to community leaders and to parents to make sure those acts never occur again .  there is so much we have accomplished in the last few years .  there is so much left to do .  we do that with the child safety act .  mr. speaker , sometimes numbers paint a dramatic picture .  according to a survey conducted by the u.s. department of justice , one in five children 10 to 17 years old are recipients of unwanted sexual solicitations online .  one of every seven victims of sexual assault is under the age of 6. one in five girls will be sexually exploited before they reach adulthood .  and one in 10 boys will become victims before they become men .  according to the national center for missing and exploited children , the whereabouts of 100 , 00 to 150 , 000 of some 500 , 000 sexual offenders currently registered in the united states are unknown .  what is known is that we are not powerless .  i fully support the measures included in the child safety act .  the passage of this bill will do nothing to bring about the safe return of children like carlie brucia , a sarasota girl scout who was brutally victimized and murdered by a sexual predator .  however , it will save other families the most undeniable anguish of losing a child to the most unthinkable acts of violence .  this bill takes commonsense steps toward ensuring sex offenders are not free to prey on the most vulnerable members of our society .  h.r. 3132 will require states to alert other states when sexual offenders seek other locations .  there are many , many things that keep parents awake at night .  passage of this bill should not be one of those .  mr. chairman , i thank the gentleman for yielding me time .  mr. chairman , i am a co-sponsor of the children 's safety act because we must crack down against child molesters by making sure they serve longer sentences and by requiring sex offenders who fail to comply with registration requirements to go back to jail where they belong .  the best way to protect young children is to keep child predators locked up in the first place because someone who has molested a child will do it again and again and again .  earlier this year , two young girls from my home state of florida , 9-year-old jessica lunsford and 13-year-old sarah lunde , were abducted , raped and killed .  in both cases , the crimes were committed by convicted sex offenders who were out on probation .  coddling pedophiles with rehabilitation and self-esteem courses does not work .  locking them up works .  this law imposes a mandatory minimum punishment of 30 years for those who commit violent sexual crimes against children , as well as a minimum punishment of life in prison or a death sentence when that crime results in the child 's death .  this legislation also cracks down on those sex offenders who refuse to follow registration requirements .  nearly 100 , 000 sex offenders remain unregistered and are moving freely about the country .  this legislation will make it a federal crime for those sex offenders who fail to register and will send them back to jail for another 5 to 20 years .  it is high time that our government cracks down on child molesters by implementing these commonsense reforms , and i urge my colleagues to vote `` yes '' on h.r. 3132 .  that is an offer i will not refuse .  i thank the chairman for his endorsement .  mr. chairman , again , i appreciate the opportunity to speak on this great bill today , but i think we can add a few things .  we send our children off to school every day and we trust that our teachers are the best and the safest and the best trained in the country .  unfortunately , there are a small few , a number of teachers across this country who are slipping between the cracks .  in the state of nevada , we hire about 1 , 400 to 2 , 000 new teachers a year .  unfortunately , some states are not able to share information regarding the criminal activity of these particular teachers .  mr. chairman , i thank the gentleman from wisconsin .  mr. chairman , i yield myself such time as i may consume .  i am pleased to bring to the house floor today h.r. 3132 , the children 's safety act of 2005 .  i introduced this legislation on june 30 in a bipartisan effort to address the growing epidemic of violence against children and the need for greater protection from convicted sex offenders through state registration and notification programs .  this year our country has been shocked by a series of brutal attacks against children at the hands of convicted sex offenders .  in june , our nation was horrified by the kidnapping and murders of members of the groene family by a convicted sex offender .  two well-publicized tragedies earlier this year in florida , in which 9-year-old jessica lunsford and 13-year-old sarah lunde were murdered by convicted sex offenders further underscore the need for quick congressional action to address the danger posed by individuals who prey on children .  in addition to the widely reported tragedies that have rightly brought this issue to the forefront , the statistics regarding the frequency with which such heinous crimes occur are staggering .  statistics show that one in five girls and one in 10 boys are sexually exploited before they reach adulthood .  yet less than 35 percent of the incidents are reported to authorities .  according to the department of justice , one in five children between the ages of 10 and 17 receive unwanted sexual solicitations online .  additionally , statistics show that 67 percent of all victims of sexual assault were juveniles under the age of 18 , and 34 percent were under the age of 12 .  in june of this year , the subcommittee on crime , terrorism and homeland security held a series of three hearings on child crimes issues , focusing on violent crimes against children , sexual exploitation of children , and the sex offender registration and notification program and related legislative proposals .  on july 30 , the judiciary committee considered this bill and ordered it favorably reported by an overwhelming vote of 22 to 4. mr. chairman , there are over 550 , 000 sex offenders in the country ; and it is conservatively estimated that at least 100 , 000 of them are lost in the system , meaning that nonregistered sex offenders are living in our communities and working at locations where they can , and likely will , come into contact with our children .  this is simply unacceptable , and the legislation specifically targets this problem to enhance the safety of america 's families and communities .  the children 's safety act will make much needed reforms to the sex offender and registration program by expanding the scope and duration of sex offender registration and notification requirements to a larger number of sex offenders .  the legislation also requires states to provide internet availability of sex offender information , requires timely registration by sex offenders , and then enhances penalties for their failure to register and increases the disclosure requirements regarding their whereabouts .  the bill authorizes united states marshals to apprehend sex offenders who fail to register and increases grants to states to apprehend sex offenders who are in violation of registration requirements contained in the legislation .  additionally , h.r. 3132 would authorize demonstration programs for new electronic monitoring programs such as anklets and global position system monitoring , which will require examination of multijurisdictional monitoring procedures .  h.r. 3132 also revises the use of dna evidence ; increases penalties for violent crimes committed against children , and sexual exploitation of children ; streamlines habeas review ; state death penalties are imposed against child killers ; and protects foster children by requiring states to perform more complete background checks before approving a foster or adoptive parent program and placement .  this legislation is strongly supported by america 's most wanted , john walsh ; ernie allen from the national center for missing and exploited children ; robbie calloway from the boys and girls clubs of america ; and many victims and representatives of victims organizations .  the courage of some , such as the father of jessica lunsford , to speak out on this important issue in the face of unmistakable grief is truly admirable .  they have provided critical input throughout the process and have urged congress to enact this legislation as quickly as possible .  mr. chairman , the time to protect our nation 's children from sexual predators in our communities and online on the internet is now .  the scope of this problem requires a swift congressional response , and i urge members of this body to move swiftly to help protect america 's children from violent sexual offenders .  mr. chairman , i reserve the balance of my time .  mr. chairman , i think this study is a good idea .  i believe that child abusers should be tracked the same way as sex offenders .  i do , mr. chairman .  mr. chairman , i will make the gentlewoman an offer she can not refuse .  mr. speaker , on that i demand the yeas and nays .  mr. chairman , i support h.r. 3132 .  it is an important bill that will help ensure the safety of american children against sexual predators .  in recent months we have heard all too often about the innocent lives of children being shattered by an adult who sexually abuses the child .  we are all familiar with the cases , some of which have been mentioned today , such as jessica lunsford who was kidnapped , held captive , abused and tortured for 3 days by a convicted sex offender who ultimately killed her by burying her alive .  and there was the case of 8-year-old shasta groene who was kidnapped , sexually abused , and held captive for weeks by a convicted sex offender who murdered her family .  these stories are atrocious and that is why congress is acting to further protect american children with the children 's safety act .  the bill requires jurisdiction-wide sex offender registries containing information like where the sex offender resides and is employed or attends school .  the bill requires a sex offender to appear in person at least once every 6 months to verify their registration information .  the bill also creates a new federal crime for failure to register as a sex offender and sets the mandatory minimum for that offense at 5 years and a maximum of 20 years .  the bill sets other mandatory minimum sentences for crimes of violence against children like murder , kidnapping , maiming , aggravated sexual abuse , sexual abuse or where the crime results in serious bodily injury .  the statistics surrounding child sexual abuse are astonishing -- 1 in 5 girls and 1 in 10 boys are sexually exploited before they reach adulthood .  and one of every six sexually assaulted victims is under the age of 6. we must protect our children by every possible means .  the children 's safety act of 2005 will help us do so and for that reason i support this legislation .  mr. speaker , sexual predators lurk in the shadows of our neighborhoods and prey on those who are innocent and defenseless .  many sex offenders are living under the radar of local law enforcement and continue to elude the criminal justice system .  but we are bringing forth legislation that strengthens the critical need of protecting the safety of our children .  h.r. 3132 , the children 's safety act , addresses the growing epidemic of violence against children and enhances their safety from convicted sex offenders through coordinated state sex offender registration and notification programs .  one of the most crucial problems is that over 100 , 000 sex offenders are `` missing. '' they have not complied with sex offender registration requirements .  this legislation remedies this crisis by ensuring compliance and enforcement .  child exploitation and sexual abuse are a growing predicament .  this bill tightens mandatory minimums for crimes of violence against children .  it expands the category of crimes to include juvenile sex offenses , possession of child pornography , and a new definition of sex offense .  it is time to shed light on this most egregious crime and tighten the outlets sex offenders use to desecrate our world .  mr. chairman , i demand a recorded vote .  mr. chairman , i want to thank the gentleman from wisconsin ( mr. sensenbrenner )  for sponsoring this legislation .  i am glad to be a co-author/cosponsor of the legislation .  the burden victims carry does not go away when the headlines do .  the children 's safety act has important preventative measures , but it also instigates appropriate response after a citizen has been victimized .  the children 's safety act provides tough tools to keep predators accountable and their whereabouts known by the rest of us .  there is one thing that a predator wants more than anything else and that is to remain anonymous , to sneak in and out of our communities and commit their criminal ways .  the issue of protecting our children from predators is on the minds of every mother and father as they put their children on school buses every morning during the school year .  from the countless phone calls , letters , and e-mails pleading to protect our kids from sex predators , we know these protections to our children in the children 's safety act are a priority to our nation and our people .  keeping our children safe from predators should be all of our priorities here in the united states congress .  we know that child molesters , after they leave the penitentiary , most of them do it again .  in this country , we are able to track a cow from the time it is born as a calf to the time it ends up on the supper table somewhere in the united states as a steak .  we do that because of public safety .  now we are going to track child molesters when they leave the penitentiary .  we will track them indefinitely because of public safety .  children should be at least as important as cattle .  as a co-author and cosponsor of the children 's safety act , as a former judge in houston , texas , i urge my colleagues on both sides of the aisle to listen to their constituents , listen to the people of this country , vote in favor of safety for american children .  the days of child molesters running and hiding are over .  mr. speaker , i rise today in support of h. res. 437 , establishing a select bipartisan committee to investigate the preparation and response for hurricane katrina .  we have all spent much of the past two weeks witnessing and examining the aftermath of this catastrophic disaster .  it has become increasingly clear that local , state , and federal government agencies failed to meet the needs of the residents of louisiana , mississippi , and alabama .  now it 's this congress 's job to figure out why , and to make sure we as a country are better prepared for the future .  first and foremost , our thoughts and prayers go out to the hurricane 's victims , their families , and their friends .  the loss of life , of property , of livelihoods and dreams has been enormous .  and we salute all americans who have stepped to the plate to help in any way they can .  congress has a responsibility to conduct oversight , but at this stage , the oversight needs to conduct oversight in a manner that does not interfere with rescue and relief efforts .  many questions need to wait ; no one wants to take people away from the massive job at hand .  but i also think some issues can and should be looked at now .  members want to begin doing oversight , and the american people are demanding it as well .  the formation of a bipartisan select committee , composed of members from the numerous house committees that bear responsibility for various aspects of our nation 's failure to respond to this disaster , would enable this congress to take a thoughtful .  whatever the threat , katrina has forced officials across america to take another look at disaster plans that may not be as solid as they previously thought .  it has forced officials across america to take another look at the laws and regulations governing disaster response to identify ways to cut bureaucratic red tape in order to respond as quickly as possible .  this is not the time to attack or defend government entities for political purposes .  this is a time to do the oversight we 're charged with doing .  our goal should be to investigate aggressively what went wrong and what went right .  we 'll do it by the book , and let the chips fall where they may .  it 's hard not to point fingers and assign blame in the aftermath of tragedy .  i understand human nature , and i understand politics .  but i think most americans want less carping and more compassion .  i think most americans want a rational , thoughtful , bipartisan review of what went wrong and what went right .  i think most americans want to know we 'll be better prepared the next time .  it remains difficult to understand how government could respond so ineffectively to a disaster that was predicted for years , and for which specific dire warnings had been issued for days .  if this is what happens when we have advance warning , i shudder to imagine the consequences when we do not .  if ever there were a time for leaders at all levels of government to come together and review and coordinate their emergency plans , it 's now .  some people are suggesting that only an independent body could properly investigate the katrina tragedy .  i think that point of view diminishes this house and the members of this house .  the voters did n't send us here to appoint commissions to do our jobs for us .  all over this country americans are digging deep and making sacrifices .  if we ca n't lead this country then let 's at least follow their lead and stand up and do our job .  madam speaker , pursuant to house resolution 439 , i call up the resolution ( h. res. 437 ) to establish the select bipartisan committee to investigate the preparation for and response to hurricane katrina , and ask for its immediate consideration .  madam speaker , i ask unanimous consent that all members may have 5 legislative days within which to revise and extend their remarks on h. res. 437 .  madam speaker , i yield myself such time as i may consume .  madam speaker , this debate that we are beginning here is about a very clear choice that is before us .  will we take the responsibility delegated to us as members of the people 's house by the framers of our constitution to ask the hard questions , admit our mistakes and improve our nation 's government for the benefit of all ?  or will we rely on proxies to do our work for us because we have judged ourselves incapable of carrying out our constitutional duty to ensure that we are providing for the general welfare , which is what the preamble of the constitution clearly states we have a responsibility to do .  i , for one , believe as james madison , the father of our constitution , did , that the constitution vests this responsibility with us .  i am ready to accept the challenge as a member of the house of representatives .  i believe that we have already started this work .  last night , in the committee on rules , many of my democratic colleagues asked excellent questions .  the gentlewoman from new york ( ms. slaughter )  , my friend from rochester , asked very thoughtful and important questions that need to be raised .  i noted that the gentlewoman from sacramento , california ( ms. matsui )  similarly asked some very , very good questions that should be posed to those dealing with the preparation for and the aftermath of hurricane katrina .  just yesterday the governor of my state , pete wilson , and i should say the former governor of my state , pete wilson , testified .  i do know very well that we have a new governor .  his name is arnold schwarzenegger , i should say for the record .  but pete wilson testified before the senate committee on homeland security and governmental affairs .  it was a hearing that they held on recovering from hurricane katrina , and he did this to share his experience and very valuable lessons that he learned from dealing with many , many very , very difficult challenges , disasters that we faced in california , earthquakes , fire , mudslides , the devastation that we faced .  i will tell members that pete wilson handled every single one of those challenges in his 8 years as governor extraordinarily well , and we learned tremendously from the tragedies that we faced in those instances .  as he said , obviously while nowhere near the scale of hurricane katrina , and we all know that hurricane katrina has been described as the worst natural disaster to ever hit our country , some of the things that were faced in california , there were terrible california floods in january of 1997 that resulted in eight deaths , the evacuation of 120 , 000 people , relocation of 55 , 000 people to 107 shelters , damage or destruction of 30 , 000 residences and 2 , 000 businesses , and total damage estimates at about $ 2 billion .  that in 1997 .  i talked earlier today , during the rule considering the establishment of this committee , about the northridge earthquake in 1994 , and it resulted in 51 deaths and injured over 9 , 000 people , left 22 , 000 people homeless .  the interesting thing , as we look at these figures , is we all know that they pale in comparison to the tragedy of hurricane katrina .  but , madam speaker , i will tell the members that these were learning experiences for us .  one of the things that was most impressive to me and one of the things that we have already found here to be very beneficial was the fact that the private sector has stepped forward and is in many ways doing things the government can not do .  and i think it is often joked about the fact that the private sector is there , ready to meet a need , a need that the government in no way could meet .  we know that for an emergency response like that we faced , clearly the government had to step in .  when i say government , i am talking about the local government , the state government , and the federal government as well .  the federal government , obviously , is not the first .  it is really the last step .  we know that state and local governments have the responsibility to make those recommendations to the federal government and then bring them in .  we also know that at virtually all these levels of government , we have heard the leadership , from president bush when it comes to the federal government , to governor blanco in louisiana , state that things were not handled as well as they could have been ; and both president bush and governor blanco , republican and democrat , have taken responsibility for dealing with this situation .  i mentioned the fact that we learned things , and i mentioned the private sector .  and one example that i like to point to , and i have got this right here , is in the 1994 northridge earthquake , we had the santa monica freeway collapse over la cienega boulevard .  the santa monica freeway is the most traversed interstate in the country .  a quarter of a million vehicles a day go on the santa monica freeway right over the la cienega off-ramp .  and the earthquake took place in january of 1994 , and i happened to be by there , and one of the police officers let me go up , and i actually took a chunk of the santa monica freeway .  this has been sitting in my living room out in california for a long period of time .  most people think it is a piece of the berlin wall , but it is actually from the some projected that it would take as much as a year or 2 years to repair this freeway that had collapsed over la cienega boulevard .  and governor wilson stepped up to the plate and did everything that he could to provide incentives to ensure that it got completed .  he wrote a piece on this the day before yesterday in the wall street journal in which he referred to the fact that people said it would take a long period of time .  they looked and established this contract with the myers company and they were told that they would have a $ 200 , 000 fine for every day beyond what they had contracted for if they did not complete it , but they got a $ 200 , 000 bonus , madam speaker , for every day that they got this completed earlier than had been projected .  as i said , some predicted it would take a year or 2 years to complete this .  madam speaker , in 66 days the santa monica freeway reopened , working 24 hours a day , 7 days a week .  this is the kind of incentive that we need to put in place to ensure that they deal with this circumstance .  and , ironically , interstate 10 is the exact same route that is going into new orleans that collapsed following hurricane katrina and the breaking of the levees .  so i think that we have the ability to respond , to deal with this , and the united states congress is in a position to make sure that we look at encouraging the most creative ways to address this challenge , look in a bipartisan way at these problems .  and we have set guidelines .  we have got deadlines .  but , obviously , if it is necessary , those can be moved if it is essential .  but we have a desire to ensure that , as an institution , we come together as the elected representatives of the american people to do our job .  and i am convinced that we are going to have the ability to do that , and we look forward to seeing members of both political parties join this very important effort , and i am convinced that they will be able to look at all levels of government and the private sector and get to the bottom of that .  madam speaker , i reserve the balance of my time .  madam speaker , i yield myself such time as i may consume .  madam speaker , before i yield time to my friend from pasco , i would just like to say over the last 24 hours i have been hearing about this abc/washington post poll to which my friend from rochester has regularly referred , and i have actually taken the opportunity to look closely at the poll itself .  we all know that when one looks at a public opinion poll , it depends on how the question is asked .  we continue to hear that 76 percent of the american people support an independent commission and they do not want congress to take this action .  actually , i looked at the poll itself , and i would like to enlighten my friend from rochester , if i might .  question no .  19 says : `` the republican leaders of congress have called for a full-scale congressional investigation of the government 's hurricane preparedness and response effort .  apart from this investigation , would you support or oppose an investigation by an independent commission like the one that investigated the 9/11 attacks ?  `` seventy-six percent support that .  well , of course .  who would not support that ?  who would not be supportive of that notion ?  but we continue that somehow the american people oppose having congress do its job and they only want this independent commission of unelected people to do their job .  then one has to look at question no .  18 just before that .  and i hesitate to raise this , but the fact that this public opinion poll has been continually utilized as the bible when it comes to consideration of our legislative proposal here , question no .  18 says : `` do you think democrats who criticize the way the bush administration has handled the hurricane response mainly want to find out what went wrong or mainly want to use the issue for political advantage ?  `` and , madam speaker , 60 percent said that democrats want to use this issue for political advantage rather than trying to get at what went wrong .  i would have never brought this up , madam speaker , had i not heard that 76 percent of the american people are opposed to having congress do its job and instead want an independent commission .  madam speaker , i yield myself such time as i may consume .  let me just respond to a couple of points .  first of all , under consideration of the establishment of this select committee , we will be operating under the standard rules of the house .  the standard rules of the house allow not individuals , but allow a committee to come together and determine who is subpoenaed .  and i will tell my colleagues that i know with absolute certainty that the people who are providing the leadership of this committee will clearly want to be in consultation with the democrats , with members of the minority to ensure that any witness who could help get to the bottom of this problem , to the root of this problem is called before the committee .  and i will tell my colleagues why .  i do not represent hollywood , california , by the way , i should say for the record ; i represent areas around hollywood in suburban los angeles , an area that has been impacted by a wide range of disasters .  i think it is absolutely reprehensible to believe that any member of this house , democrat or republican , would want to do anything that would jeopardize the ability to find out exactly what happened leading up to hurricane katrina and exactly what happened in the aftermath of hurricane katrina .  so i can assure my colleagues that i am convinced that everyone is determined to do that .  i should say that , as i sat down , one of my staff members reminded me that i mentioned this poll from the washington post and abc that is the model , i guess , that we are following for the establishment of this committee ; and even though it said that 60 percent of the american people believe that the democrats would use this issue for political advantage rather than trying to get to the root of this problem , i do not believe it for one minute .  i hesitate to say that the american people are wrong , but i will tell my colleagues this : i do not believe that the american people are right when they claim , to a number of 60 percent , that democrats do not want to get to the root of this problem , which is what they have said in this much-hailed abc news-washington post poll .  madam speaker , reclaiming my time , i will say that that is exactly what exists .  the rules of the house that apply for the subpoena process for other committees in the house will apply similarly for this new select committee that is charged with dealing with this circumstance .  madam speaker , i have listened to these terms : `` sticking our head in the sand '' ; `` ignoring the problem. '' i have no idea what anyone is talking about when they say things like that .  it is absolutely absurd to believe that any member of this institution does not want to do everything possible to ensure that we find out what happened leading up to hurricane katrina and what has happened since hurricane katrina has hit .  because we , at this moment , live with the threat of hurricane ophelia off the carolinas , so we are moving as expeditiously as possible to get this bipartisan committee put together , where the committee itself will determine how someone is subpoenaed , just as is the case with every committee .  i hope very much that the gentleman from mississippi is appointed to serve as a member of this select committee .  he obviously has strong feelings .  he has made it very clear that , as someone who was victimized by hurricane katrina , he should in fact be able to subpoena ; and i can assure him , under the standing rules of the house , as a member of the committee , if the minority leader chooses to appoint him to that committee , he will be able to participate in determining who testifies before that committee .  so we are in this together , madam speaker , whether members like it or not .  again , i do not believe that washington post poll that the democrats want to use this for political gain .  i believe the democrats , along with republicans , want to find out exactly what has created this challenge at all levels of government and even in the private sector , with which we are contending at this point .  madam speaker , i reserve the balance of my time .  madam speaker , i reserve the balance of my time .  madam speaker , coming together is what this is all about .  this is a bipartisan committee that has been proposed by the speaker , and we look forward to seeing those minority members who are going to be part of this process .  mr. speaker , i reserve the balance of my time .  mr. speaker , i reserve the balance of my time .  mr. speaker , i reserve the balance of my time .  mr. speaker , i yield myself the balance of my time .  mr. speaker , the united states of america has gone through the worst natural disaster in our nation 's history .  time and time again , we have been hearing people say that .  it is unimaginable what people have gone through .  i have to admit i can not imagine the suffering .  i have seen it on television , i have heard it reported by my colleagues on both sides of the aisle who have been victimized themselves , but it is impossible , it is impossible to imagine how horrible this has been .  we do know one thing , both president bush , republican , and the democratic governor of louisiana , governor blanco , said that mistakes were made leading up to hurricane katrina and mistakes were made in the aftermath of hurricane katrina .  everyone has acknowledged that .  we have an opportunity , we have an opportunity to come together , as we have in previous disasters , and deal with it , meet our constitutionally mandated responsibility for oversight of the executive branch to investigate and look at what happened at all levels of government , local government , state government , the federal government , even the private sector .  we have a chance , mr. speaker , now to do that .  that is exactly what the gentleman from illinois ( speaker hastert ) has proposed , working with our colleagues in the other body , to come together with a committee that will allow members of both political parties to raise any question that they want , to allow this committee to have the authority to subpoena witnesses , bring them forward .  i have to say that it is very obvious to me that this is our chance to do it .  we are dealing with a hurricane right now in the carolinas .  we are dealing with other potential disasters on the horizon .  i believe i have a responsibility to the people whom i represent , i have a responsibility to all the american people , just as we all do , to make sure that the problems that we faced leading up to and in the aftermath of hurricane katrina never happen again .  mark my words , everyone , democrat and republican alike , wants to ensure that we are able to address those concerns .  that is exactly what the establishment of this commission will do .  i am perplexed , mr. speaker , with the arguments that i have heard from my colleagues on the other side of the aisle .  they want to increase their level of participation , they want to be able to get to the bottom of this , and yet they are saying let us give up our responsibility under article 1 , section 8 of the constitution that charges us with this duty .  this is our responsibility .  this is a very important part of the reason the american people elected us as representatives , to come here and do their bidding , to do their job , to make sure that we find the answers to these very important questions .  i hope that we will be able to have that sense of solidarity , and so i am saying on behalf of the gentleman from illinois ( speaker hastert ) , i know that he looks forward to having our colleagues on the other side of the aisle appointed , along with those who he will appoint to serve on this very important committee , and with that , with our quest of trying to ensure that we never go through what we have gone through in the past several weeks , i urge support of this very important resolution .  mr. speaker , i object to the vote on the ground that a quorum is not present and make the point of order that a quorum is not present .  madam speaker , i thank the chairman for yielding me this time .  madam speaker , i rise today in support of house resolution 437 to establish a select bipartisan committee to investigate the preparation for and the response to hurricane katrina .  madam speaker , congress has an important constitutional role to play in providing oversight to the executive branch and federal agencies .  but more importantly , congress has a responsibility to the people we represent to investigate the preparation and response efforts to hurricane katrina and make recommendations on how we can better prepare and respond to disasters in the future .  madam speaker , some of my colleagues on the other side of the aisle oppose the idea of a bipartisan congressional committee held accountable to the people and by the people who elect us .  but , madam speaker , a bipartisan investigative committee held directly accountable by the people is exactly what is needed because we never know when or where the next disaster will strike , it is vital that congress move swiftly to investigate how local , state , and federal governments , along with the private relief agencies , can better communicate with one another and coordinate the relief efforts .  america must be better prepared to handle disasters in the future .  madam speaker , i am saddened that hours after hurricane katrina rescue and recovery efforts began , lawmakers were publicly pointing fingers rather than focusing on how to help the victims .  clearly , clearly in hindsight there are things that could have been done better .  only now that victims have been rescued and their immediate basic needs are being met is it appropriate that an investigation of what happened begin .  there is no question that hurricane katrina caused great devastation , the magnitude of which becomes more evident every day .  but , madam speaker , one of america 's greatest strengths is our long-standing tradition of pulling together in times of need .  i am proud that in my home state of washington , which is located 2 , 500 miles from louisiana and the gulf coast , families are reaching out to help those affected .  communities are collecting food , clothing , and cash donations .  for example , washington apple growers have contributed truckloads of world-class apples to people living in mississippi and the other hard-hit areas and throughout america .  families are opening up their homes , businesses are employing dislocated workers , citizens are traveling to the gulf coast region to help with recovery and rebuilding efforts , and schools are teaching children who have been displaced from their schools , homes , and friends .  america has been challenged by natural disasters in the past , and we will no doubt be challenged by disasters in the future .  only by republicans and democrats working together in a bipartisan fashion will the best interests of our nation prevail .  madam speaker , there is much to be learned from this disaster .  we must examine what worked , what did not , and what we need to do to be better prepared .  the primary focus of this bipartisan investigative committee should be that we should begin to prepare for the disasters ahead and not to assign blame .  i , therefore , urge my colleagues to support house resolution 437 .  madam speaker , reading the resolution , it simply says that there is hereby established a select bipartisan committee to investigate the preparation for and the response to hurricane katrina .  there is so much we can learn , so many missteps , but so many things that were done right .  and i think it is time for us to come together .  i have served in this body now 25 years ; and in that 25 years , a little over half of it was under a democrat house and democrat leadership , tip o'neill , jim wright , three speakers in all on the democrat side .  and i can tell you , the ratio of this committee , we would have just rejoiced in getting 9 out of the 20 spots during that period of time .  i think it is tremendously fair , and i think the speaker has been very fair in what he has talked about .  now anyone in this house that would suggest that any member of this house or any member of either party would whitewash or push something under the rug that could mean the life and death of the american people or the destruction of property because it is politically expedient , i just can not imagine that .  i can not imagine that possibly happening .  there is going to be good people appointed to this committee , and they are going to be people that really care .  and i think after they look at it and after this report comes out , the american people will have faith once again in their government .  you know , criticism has always been made suggesting that congress can not have oversight over the laws that we pass ourselves .  what do we do every day ?  we do that in committees every day .  we have hearings .  i do not care whether it is a ways and means committee , the appropriations committee , transportation committee , whatever committee we are talking about , we are constantly examining and reexamining the laws that we have passed and the laws that have been passed by previous congresses .  that is our job .  that is what we are supposed to do .  and for us to suggest or for me to suggest that we need to push this off to some independent body and not do it ourselves does not make a whole lot of sense .  and , by the way , one of the recommendations that came out of the independent body from 9/11 was to put fema under homeland security .  now everybody is clamoring , saying that was a mistake .  i think it was a mistake , and i think we need to very closely examine what we are doing .  we need to do something else , too .  we have appropriated an awful lot of money to be spent down in that area , and we are going to appropriate a lot more .  i think the president estimated that it could be $ 200 billion .  and we have to watch and see how that money is being spent .  we saw fema make some big mistakes in the past down in miami/dade county , where they were paying for funerals last year where there was not a hurricane .  they were paying for funerals where there was not even a corpse .  they were paying for all kinds of things , and that area should have been actually taken out of the disaster relief area when it was passed .  so this the committee has a big , big job ; and it should be done in the congress .  i do not want an oversight committee , independent of the congress , not elected people , that are overseeing it and seeing how this money is being spent , $ 200 billion of american taxpayers ' money .  madam speaker , i thank the chairman for yielding me this time .  madam speaker , i rise in strong support of the resolution to create a bipartisan , bicameral congressional committee to investigate the local , state , and federal response and preparation to hurricane katrina .  as a member of the louisiana delegation , i am not interested in polls .  i want prudent deliberation , and i want substantive action .  congress has the obligation and duty to conduct a thorough investigation to provide the american people with answers .  the investigation must be expeditious and thorough , without interfering with the recovery efforts .  the idea of an independent commission is not the best option .  it is the responsibility of congress to look at the federal agencies this body created to respond to disasters .  it is the responsibility of congress to identify the deficiencies and correct them .  as a result of the 9/11 commission , congress responded with legislation based on their recommendations .  now is the time for congress to provide scrutiny on how the law was implemented .  a separate so-called independent commission would simply be a redundant step .  the american people demand prompt answers and solid solutions to the bureaucratic and legal hurdles that were impediments to the response to hurricane katrina .  i personally experienced these .  as a member of the louisiana delegation , i also believe that the members from impacted regions must have a participating voice in the investigation to provide firsthand knowledge of frustrations and impediments that our offices confronted .  it is urgent that deficiencies in command , control , communication , and response be corrected .  a bipartisan , bicameral congressional committee for oversight and investigation is the first step .  i urge my colleagues to support this resolution so that congress can exercise its duty and obligation to the american people .  mr. speaker , i move to suspend the rules and pass the bill ( h.r. 438 ) to designate the facility of the united states postal service located at 2000 allston way in berkeley , california , as the `` maudelle shirek post office building '' .  mr. speaker , i ask unanimous consent that all members may have 5 legislative days within which to revise and extend their remarks and include extraneous material on the bill under consideration .  mr. speaker , i yield myself such time as i may consume .  mr. speaker , h.r. 438 would name this post office building after long-time berkeley , california resident maudelle shirek .  the author of this legislation is the gentlewoman from california ( ms. lee )  , who seeks to recognize ms. shirek .  mr. speaker , i reserve the balance of my time .  mr. speaker , i seek to claim time in opposition to the motion .  mr. speaker , i yield myself such time as i may consume .  mr. speaker , normally i would not come to the floor to oppose a bill naming a post office in someone else 's district .  i am confident i speak on behalf of some of the west coast members of congress , as well as the mainstream american values and certainly have no personal animosity towards the lady for whom this post office is named in this bill .  however , there is a plethora of information on the record that sets her apart from , i will say , the most consistent of american values .  and rather than read those into the record , mr. speaker , i just wish to voice my objection .  mr. speaker , i reserve the balance of my time .  mr. speaker , i yield myself such time as i may consume .  mr. speaker , just to make a couple of gentle points , the effort has been , at least on the record , as not , i do not want to say fighting against injustice , but a record of fighting against justice , particularly in the case of the effort to free mumia abu-jamal .  i think most of us know about that particular case .  and i am concerned about a role model .  i am concerned about young people a generation or two from now .  when they go back by that post office in berkeley and look at the name on the post office , they are going to ask what were the principles that brought this about ?  and i contend that those principles would be running contrary to american values .  mr. speaker , on that i demand the yeas and nays .  mr. speaker , pursuant to house resolution 469 , i call up the joint resolution ( h.j. res. 68 ) making continuing appropriations for the fiscal year 2006 , and for other purposes , and ask for its immediate consideration .  mr. speaker , i yield myself such time as i may consume , and i hope i do not consume very much .  mr. speaker , i am pleased to bring to the house the continuing resolution for fiscal year 2006 .  the cr will run through november 18 .  it is a clean cr without exception .  several members are pushing the extension of dairy programs , adding emergency spending for the corps of engineers , and a whole host of other ideas .  we have rejected them all .  these items can be addressed in the next supplemental , regular fiscal year 2006 bills , or in reconciliation .  the cr will fund agencies at the lower of three levels : the house-passed level , the senate-passed level , or fiscal year 2005 current rates .  agencies funded in the labor-hhs , treasury , transportation and defense bills will be funded at the lower of the house-passed or current rates since the senate will not pass these bills by october 1. the house and senate have not passed a cr under the current framework since 1994 .  by returning to a traditional cr that funds the government operations at the lowest possible level , it will provide a strong motivation for this congress to complete its work in regular order and produce individual appropriations bills and conference reports .  i want the body to know the committee on appropriations is strongly committed to bringing back to this floor individual conference reports for each and every bill .  the committee does not support an omnibus or minibus in any form and will do everything in its power to ensure that that does not happen .  i remain committed to moving these bills individually and within the framework of the budget resolution .  in order to help the senate with the difficult process of passing the treasury , transportation and labor-hhs bills , we will continue to push the lower rate , long-term continuing resolution prospect .  i am convinced that this is the only way for us to get back to regular order .  the house and senate committees on appropriations are both committed to this goal .  with regard to the regular order appropriations bills , the interior and legislative branch conference reports have been signed into law .  the homeland security conference concluded just this morning , and we expect to file a conference report today .  the senate has now passed eight appropriations bills , and the ninth is expected to be completed by early next week .  we have begun giving notional allocations to energy and water , foreign operations , science , justice , state and commerce and agriculture subcommittees so they can begin negotiating .  we are making very good progress .  this continuing resolution is an important step toward achieving our goal of restoring regular order to the congressional appropriations process .  mr. speaker , i reserve the balance of my time .  mr. speaker , i reserve a point of order on the gentleman 's motion .  mr. speaker , i make a point of order under clause 7 of rule xvi .  the instructions proposed in the motion to recommit range far beyond the subject matter of the joint resolution .  mr. speaker , by direction of the committee on rules , i call up house resolution 469 and ask for its immediate consideration .  mr. speaker , for the purpose of debate only , i yield the customary 30 minutes to the gentlewoman from california ( ms. matsui )  , pending which i yield myself such time as i may consume .  mr. speaker , house resolution 469 is a rule that provides for consideration of house joint resolution 68 , making continuing appropriations for the fiscal year 2006 .  this rule provides for 1 hour of debate in the house , equally divided and controlled by the chairman and ranking minority member of the committee on appropriations .  the rule waives all points of order against consideration of the joint resolution .  the rule provides one motion to recommit the joint resolution .  additionally , the resolution provides that suspensions will be in order at any time on the legislative day of thursday , october 6 , 2005 , and the speaker or his designee shall consult the minority leader or her designee on any suspension considered under the rule .  lastly , the rule provides that a motion to proceed pursuant to section 2908 of the defense base closure and realignment act of 1990 shall be in order only if offered by the majority leader or his designee .  mr. speaker , i want to commend the gentleman from california ( chairman lewis ) and the entire house committee on appropriations on both sides of the aisle for sticking to the timetable they laid out at the start of this legislative session .  in an impressive display of bipartisanship and just sheer hard work , the house passed all 11 appropriations bills prior to the july 4 district work period .  since july , the senate has returned to us only the interior and legislative branch appropriations bills , which have each been signed into law by the president .  additionally , the senate has passed six of its remaining 10 appropriations bills .  these six are awaiting closure in conference .  we are now just anticipating action from the senate on those last four appropriations bills so we can move forward , finish the appropriations process , and avoid a cumbersome omnibus funding bill .  unfortunately , the appropriations process within the two bodies has not been completed prior to the start of the new fiscal year which , of course , begins this october 1. we must institute a continuing resolution in order to allow the government to function through november 18 , 2005 , while we complete consideration of the remaining appropriations bills , waiting on the senate to complete their final actions , and for the conference committees to do their work .  this rule allows consideration of the imperative funding measure .  i am most impressed with the work of the committee on appropriations on this continuing resolution .  throughout the appropriations process , the committee has shown its commitment to the budget resolution and to fiscal responsibility .  the committee has funded programs and activities at the lowest level of the house-passed level , the senate-passed level , or the fiscal year 2005 current rate .  for agencies for which the senate has not passed a bill by the start of a new fiscal year , the funding rate is at the lower of the house-passed level , or the fiscal year 2005 current rate .  the legislation includes language prohibiting agencies from initiating or resuming programs or procurements not funded in the fiscal year 2005 , and prohibits agencies from awarding new grants and certain other forms of assistance during the period of the cr , which , of course , is through november 18 of this year .  i again congratulate the gentleman from california ( chairman lewis ) and the gentleman from wisconsin ( ranking member obey ) and the entire committee for their hard work this year .  i urge members to support this rule and the underlying cr so that we can finish the appropriations process , move down the road to responsible funding for the needs of this nation , and avoid a cumbersome omnibus funding bill .  mr. speaker , i reserve the balance of my time .  mr. speaker , i yield myself such time as i may consume .  i thank the gentlewoman for her comments .  i certainly agree that this debate about the budget and the appropriations process is always a debate about our future , and it is a debate about priorities .  clearly , we have had a shift in priorities since that budget resolution passed .  as a state that was hit by four hurricanes last year and had the beginnings of katrina come across our state this year , our hearts go out to our brothers and sisters on the gulf coast , and we recognize that this government has a commitment to help lift up those citizens on the gulf coast and , where appropriate , we have a federal responsibility in the rebuilding and reconstruction process in louisiana and mississippi and alabama , and a lot of other places .  so i think that that reinforces the need for us to move ahead with this continuing resolution and allow our appropriations process to work , instead of positioning ourselves to a situation where we end up with an omnibus bill that i do not think either one of us thinks is the appropriate way to go .  there is an opportunity here for us to reprioritize , using regular order , using the strength and talent that sits on our committees , and bringing about a measured approach to doing that .  it is going to require offsets .  the numbers that are coming out of there fluctuate wildly , and it is important that we have a handle on what those needs truly are .  it is important that we recognize that had we not taken some of the steps that we have taken in the past , we would not have eliminated $ 100 billion off of the deficit in the last year .  we would not have been in a position where revenues to the government would have actually been higher than they were as a result of the lower taxes and the growth in the economy that has come about as a result of that .  but that is a debate for another day .  this is a debate about the continuing resolution and the need for us to make sure that the government does not shut down .  the house has done its work .  i think we can all be very proud of our appropriators finishing their schedule before july 4 , and now we are in a position , unfortunately , of being in a bit of a holding pattern , waiting on the senate and our conference committees to do their work .  but it is important for us to pass this rule and allow the cr to move ahead .  mr. speaker , i reserve the balance of my time .  mr. speaker , i yield myself the balance of my time .  i applaud the gentleman 's bipartisan effort to find ways to pay for these unanticipated expenses that we have come across , and i wish him the best in that effort .  i think it is important that we all recognize on both sides of the aisle that offsets are going to be necessary and that we do have to reprioritize .  as the gentleman knows , the president submitted a list through the regular budget process of 150 programs to cut or eliminate earlier this year , and some of them received some attention and others received more attention than others .  it is certainly a difficult proposition in this town to eliminate any program , but the president led early this year with that thought in mind and he had mixed success .  again , recognizing the importance of your bipartisan effort and recognizing the facts that we are going to have to have these offsets , this bill , this rule that we are here to consider essentially keeps the government from shutting down while we have that debate .  it appears that there is genuine broad support for the cr and for the rule , and i appreciate that .  mr. speaker , i thank the gentlewoman from california ( ms. matsui )  for her work on the rules committee and what is essentially a broad commitment that we have to have this cr through november 18 .  frankly , it is not for lack of effort on the house side .  both parties have a lot of reasons to be proud of the efforts of our appropriators and the entire house .  we had a herculean effort this summer to move these bills on schedule , move them out before july 4th , and because of supreme court nominations and everything else obviously the senate has had other issues on their agenda , and we are in a holding pattern on the appropriations .  nobody wants to see the government shut down after saturday , so it is important that we move this rule , move the underlying cr , and allow the regular order , the talent and skills that exist within this house , to work their magic as we deal with these unanticipated effects from two gulf storms , and we are not even finished with hurricane season yet .  mr. speaker , i yield back the balance of my time , and i move the previous question on the resolution .  the previous question was ordered .  the resolution was agreed to .  a motion to reconsider was laid on the table .  mr. speaker , i submit the following correspondence for the record .  house of representatives , committee on ways and means , washington , dc , september 29 , 2005 .  dear chairman lewis : i am writing concerning h. j. res. 68 , making continuing appropriations for the fiscal year 2006 , and for other purposes , which is currently scheduled for floor consideration today .  as you know , the committee on ways and means has jurisdiction over matters concerning medicare .  there are two sections within the introduced resolution that are within the authorizing jurisdiction of the committee on ways and means .  section 118 of the resolution allows the social security administration to continue hearing medicare appeals pending the transfer of that authority to the department of health and human services .  secondly , section 121 extends for one year the availability of an appropriation provided to the centers for medicare and medicaid services and the social security administration under the medicare prescription drug , improvement , and modernization act of 2003 .  however , in order to expedite this legislation for floor consideration , the committee will forgo action on this resolution .  this is being done because of the agreement reached by our respective committees ' staff .  an e-mail on this issue , sent by the committee , states , `` we are happy to concede your jurisdiction in this matter , and included the language solely because of omb 's [ office of management and budget ] request that we do so .  we do n't believe that it prejudices any future action on your part. '' i will place a copy of this letter in the congressional record during floor consideration .  best regards , bill thomas , mr. speaker , pursuant to house resolution 481 , i call up the bill ( h.r. 3893 ) to expedite the construction of new refining capacity in the united states , to provide reliable and affordable energy for the american people , and for other purposes , and ask for its immediate consideration in the house .  mr. speaker , i ask unanimous consent that all members may have 5 legislative days within which to revise and extend their remarks on the legislation before us and to insert extraneous material on the bill .  mr. speaker , i want to cut to the chase on this issue .  in 1981 there were 324 operating refineries in the boundaries of the united states of america .  today there are 148 .  do the math : 184 is a smaller number by 176 than 324 .  there are a lot of reasons for it , but one of the reasons is this flow diagram to my left .  to the left we have all of the permits that are required for what is called `` new source review. '' that is if they want to expand an existing refinery .  now , this is actually the permitting application to expand an existing refinery in the state that i live in , the state of texas .  in the new source review , every one of these steps has to go forward .  on the right of the chart are additional permits in addition to the new source review .  this is not a made-up chart .  this is the law as it exists today .  what company 's board of directors in their right minds would want to go through this process and tie up billions of dollars for years and years if they did not know that they would at least get a definite decision in a timely fashion ?  the bill before us may not be the best bill .  it may not be the only approach .  but it is a fact that we use 21 million barrels of oil a day in this country and we only have the refining capacity for about 16 on a good day ; and , unfortunately , since katrina and rita , we have had many good days .  we are down to 14 million barrels of refinery capacity that is available , and we need 21 million barrels of refinery capacity to refine our consumer demands that we have right now in this country .  so this bill before us today does not eliminate any of these requirements .  it does not lower the standard .  what it does do is require the environmental protection agency and the department of energy to appoint officials within their agencies to consolidate and to coordinate all of these reviews if , if , a state governor wants them to or if the president of the united states wants them to on federal property .  if a governor does not want it to expedite the review , they do not have to ; and this stays in existence , which means in those states they will not get any new or existing refineries built or expanded .  but in some states , and i hope my state of texas is one , i think governor perry would ask for this expedited review .  if that happens , and if we can get a company that wants to invest in a new refinery or expand an existing refinery , you will actually get a decision in a timely fashion .  i have reason to believe that if we pass this bill and if the senate passes this bill within the next year , you are going to see america 's systems step forward and actually ask to build new refineries in the united states of america .  this is a good bill .  we should vote for it .  we should send it to the senate , encourage them to vote for a similar bill and then go to conference and produce a conference report that the president can sign , and let us get our country moving again and at least begin to start the process to lower gasoline prices for every american in this country .  in the days right after hurricane katrina , gasoline prices shot up past the $ 3 dollar mark almost everywhere .  shortages caused some gasoline stations to run dry .  americans nationwide worried if the price would be higher on their way home from work than it was in the morning .  many consumers worried that they were getting gouged , and wondered if prices would ever go down again .  today , we take action .  today , the house of representatives will support building new refineries , improving gasoline markets , and outlawing price gouging .  my committee was voting on the gasoline for america 's security act just 4 weeks after hurricane katrina crossed the coast .  on that day , 11 refineries remained closed by flooding and power failures , and most had no restart dates .  roughly 18 percent of all u.s. gasoline production was still halted , and prices everywhere had spiked as a consequence .  katrina damaged refineries all over louisiana and mississippi .  then hurricane rita came along and damaged refineries in louisiana and texas .  some have not restarted yet .  we were all surprised to learn what happens when a chunk of our domestic capacity goes off line .  every driver in america has endured shortages and price spikes that still have not fully subsided .  this bill encourages new refineries to increase supply .  we improve siting procedures , provide regulatory risk insurance , suggest non-park federal lands for consideration , and give refiners more certainty about the rules they have to live under .  our nation is more secure if refineries are spread more throughout the country .  this bill promotes new pipelines to get new crude oil and gasoline to consumers at lower prices .  we encourage those who might build the alaska natural gas pipeline to speed up , by setting a deadline on their incentives .  we require a study of whether pipelines should have backup power capability , so that they could operate during power outages .  the bill outlaws price gouging during emergencies for gasoline , crude oil , and home heating oil .  we leave in place state measures against price gouging .  we increase penalties to $ 11 , 000 per incident and expand the geographic scope of the provision .  i want to thank chairman cliff stearns of our commerce , trade and consumer protection subcommittee and congressman greg walden for their help on this provision .  we promote conservation with a doe program to encourage carpooling and vanpooling .  we also require evaluation of using cmaq funds , congestion mitigation and air quality , for carpool and vanpool projects .  we can make it easier for americans to network and do these voluntary reductions of demand .  we authorize a refinery built for military use .  if the president determines that there is insufficient refining capacity , the president can enter into contracts to permit , construct and operate a refinery with private industry to manufacture refined products for the military .  this bill does n't do everything i think it should do .  last night , i agreed to drop very important new source review provisions that would give clarity to refiners and other energy providers .  an operator of a refinery , a power plant , or an industrial facility should not feel scared to conduct routine maintenance or modernize the system without hurting emissions .  a bipartisan majority of the energy & amp ; commerce committee believes we should codify the administration 's return to a sensible nsr policy .  those who want to delay these sensible reforms are taking a step back from increasing supplies of gasoline , heating oil and other forms energy .  but i do n't want this to get in the way of expanding refinery capacity after hurricane katrina , so i will set it aside for now until we can hold the additional hearings that some believe are needed .  we will have a vote in the future on this policy , and when it passes , our nation 's supply of both energy supply and common sense will expand .  but today we have a chance to strike a blow against high gasoline prices .  we can increase competition among refineries by seeing new ones built .  we let any retail gasoline provider know the federal government is watching -- so do n't gouge consumers in an emergency .  people everywhere expect us to do the right thing , and there 's been honest and candid debate about what constitutes the right thing .  according to some , doing nothing is not only right , but cheap and easy , too .  the do-nothing plan is the one we 've followed for decades .  i think the two killer hurricanes have weakened the will to continue doing nothing , however .  i hope so .  our country needs more oil refineries because the people who work for a living need gasoline to get to work .  these are people who earn paychecks and buy groceries at the safeway and pay their bills , including their taxes .  that means they use gasoline every day .  they need it , and they need it at a price they can afford .  they are n't activists and they do n't contribute to campaigns or hire any lobbyists .  sometimes washington forgets about them , but i have n't , and that 's why we 're taking up this bill .  our cars , our jobs , our nation 's economic growth and our people 's opportunity to prosper -- they all rely on gasoline .  gasoline does not come from heaven , it comes from a refinery .  let 's send to the senate and the president this antidote for high gasoline prices .  vote `` yes '' on this bill .  mr. speaker , i submit the following exchange of letters for the record .  house of representatives , committee on the judiciary , washington , dc , october 5 , 2005 .  dear chairman barton : on september 28 , 2005 , the committee on energy and commerce ordered reported h.r. 3893 , the `` gasoline for america 's security act of 2005. '' in recognition of the desire to expedite floor consideration of h.r. 3893 , the committee on the judiciary hereby waives any consideration of the bill .  several sections of h.r. 3893 contain matters within the committee on the judiciary 's rule x jurisdiction .  a summary of principal provisions within the committee on the judiciary 's jurisdiction follows .  section 102 ( e ) grants original and exclusive federal court jurisdiction to adjudicate civil actions filed under this section .  section 202 ( e ) grants original and exclusive federal court jurisdiction to adjudicate civil actions filed under this section .  these matters fall within the committee on the judiciary 's jurisdiction under rule x ( 1 ) ( l ) ( 1 ) ( `` the judiciary and judicial proceedings , civil and criminal '' ) .  section 605 ( f ) grants members of the `` commission for the deployment of the hydrogen economy , '' as creted under title vi of the bill , the authority to issue subpoenas without requesting the assistance of the attorney general .  this matter falls within the committee on the judiciary 's jurisdiction under rule x ( 1 ) ( l ) ( 1 ) ( `` the judiciary and judicial proceedings , civil and criminal '' ) .  the committee on the judiciary agrees to waive any formal consideration of the bill with the understanding that its jurisdiction over these and other provisions contained in the legislation is no way altered or diminished .  this waiver is further conditioned upon the understanding between our committees that there are no provisions contained in h.r. 3893 that could be construed or interpreted to alter , modify , or to have any effect on any laws or regulations pertaining to any fuel additive , including ethanol and mtbe .  the committee on the judiciary also reserves the right to seek appointment to any house-senate conference on this legislation .  i would appreciate your including this letter in the congressional record during consideration of h.r. 3893 on the house floor .  thank you for your attention to these matters .  sincerely , f .  james sensenbrenner , jr. , house of representatives , committee on energy and commerce , washington , dc , october 4 , 2005 .  dear chairman sensenbrenner : i write in regards to h.r. 3893 , gasoline for america 's security act of 2005 .  while the committee on the judiciary did not receive a referral of the bill upon introduction , i appreciate your willingness not to seek a referral on h.r. 3893 .  i agree that your decision to forego action on the bill will not prejudice the committee on the judiciary with respect to its jurisdictional prerogatives on this or future legislation .  further , knowing of your interest in the debate surrounding fuel additive liability , nothing in h.r. 3893 should be construed or interpreted to alter , modify , or to have any effect on any laws or regulations pertaining to any additive , including ethanol and mtbe .  i will include our exchange of letters in the committee 's report on h.r. 3893 , and i look forward to working with you as we prepare to pass this important energy legislation for the american people .  sincerely , joe barton , mr. speaker , i yield myself such time as i may consume to enter into a colloquy with the gentleman from michigan ( mr. stupak )  and the gentleman from virginia ( mr. boucher )  if they are on the floor .  i know the gentleman from michigan ( mr. stupak )  is .  i do not know if the gentleman from virginia ( mr. boucher )  is or not .  first of all , i want to say that i think it is good that we have a democrat substitute .  i think it adds to the debate .  it certainly adds to the fairness of the debate .  but i do have some questions for my good friend from michigan .  on page 2 , title i , section 101 , it basically says if a president has issued a declaration that there is an energy emergency , it begins to talk about a price that is unconscionably excessive .  that is line 4. what is unconscionably excessive ?  so reclaiming my time , mr. speaker , if they were up 250 percent , that would not be unconscionably excessive ?  i am asking what if it was conscious ?  what if somebody set a price that was not unconscious , but said i am going to raise the price ?  would that trigger it ?  look , i am asking legitimate questions .  then you need to put the example in the statute .  mr. speaker , i know the gentleman 's intent is honorable .  i am not questioning that .  can the gentleman answer questions about section 191 , the strategic refinery reserve ?  i know the gentleman from virginia ( mr. boucher )  is the prime author .  first of all , it says the secretary shall establish and operate .  does that mean that the federal government would actually build these refineries and operate them with federal employees ?  would these refineries operate continuously , around the clock , or would they only operate when the president has declared an energy emergency ?  well , on page 18 , the implementation plan just says the secretary shall transmit to the congress a plan .  but it is your understanding that if this were to become law , these refineries that would be built by the department of energy would actually be operated on a continual basis ; is that correct ?  but the strategic petroleum reserve is a reserve that you take crude oil and store it so if we need it you bring it up and transmit it to refineries to be refined into refined products .  a strategic refinery reserve , as i understand it in this bill , you actually go out and build the refineries , and it is unclear to me whether you would operate them around the clock or just in some sort of an emergency .  i do understand that you require the secretary of energy to transmit the plan .  but if the secretary of energy did not want to operate them continuously , i guess he would have that authority in the plan to have them as a sort of ready reserve .  mr. speaker , i claim the time in opposition to the motion to recommit .  mr. speaker , i want to engage in a short colloquy with the gentleman from new york ( mr. mchugh )  concerning liheap funding .  mr. speaker , reclaiming my time , i support increased liheap funding and the energy policy act of 2005 the for liheap funding from $ 2 billion to $ 5.1 billion .  i will work with the gentleman to help increase the amount of funds appropriated for liheap , to help those americans , including those americans in your great state of new york , most vulnerable to the higher energy costs we are seeing today .  mr. speaker , i oppose the motion to recommit .  i know we are tired and grumpy , and we want to go home and catch planes .  let me simply say that it appears to be the stupak language on price gouging that was in the democratic substitute .  if that is correct , we have already had the vote , and we have in the pending bill language that addresses price gouging .  so i guess we just have a difference of opinion .  it reminds me of what ginger rogers said when she was asked to comment on what a great dancer fred astaire was .  she said , `` yes , but i do it , and i do it in high heels backwards. '' so we both agree on both sides of the aisle that we need to do something about price gouging .  i would say the base bill before us does it a little bit more eloquently , and it does it so that we can actually get to the root cause without preempting the states .  mr. speaker , i urge a `` no '' vote on the motion to recommit .  mr. speaker , i thank the chairman for yielding me time , and i want to thank the gentleman from texas ( mr. barton )  for working so hard to accommodate those of us who represent the northeastern part of this country in this bill .  i rise in strong support of this legislation , and i do so having worked hard to make sure that those of us who represent the northeastern part of the country are satisfied with what we have before us today .  i wish to make three points .  the first is that the issue of new source review is gone .  it is a debate for another day , and i think that is an enormous improvement to the bill .  the issue of pollution in this country needs to be addressed , and the clean air act definitely needs to be amended , but i felt for a long time a refinery bill was not the place to do that , and i commend my leadership for being able to work that out .  as the gentlewoman from new mexico mentioned in her speech , there is a wonderful provision on price gouging that will protect consumers against price gouging from the refinery on down .  the third point is that the only cost in this bill is the cost associated with increasing the northeast home heating oil reserve from 2 million to 5 million barrels a day , which is critical to the northeast .  the bottom line is , if you are satisfied with higher gas prices , if you are satisfied with the concentration of refinery capacity in hurricane-prone areas , if you are satisfied with the fact that we have not built a new refinery in so many years , if you are satisfied with the status quo and if you think your constituents are satisfied with that , if you think that 2 million barrels is enough for the northeast heating oil reserve , if you think this bill is going to cost money even though it will not , then vote against it .  but this is your opportunity to support an energy bill that you can tell your constituents will help , over the short term and the long term , provide gasoline and heating oil to your constituents who need it badly .  mr. speaker , i thank the chairman for his excellent work on this issue .  it is so interesting for me to stand here in this body and listen to people say it was rushed through committee , that we have not given proper thought to this issue .  mr. speaker , it seems this issue has been around for about 10 years , trying to get an energy bill through , and we did .  we passed the energy policy act of 2005 .  but this issue has been on the table for 10 years , and if former president clinton had not vetoed drilling in anwr in 1995 , we might not be standing here having this discussion today .  but that happened .  so this is not being rushed through .  this is something that is the culmination of a decade 's worth of talk .  and the people in tennessee , in my district , are tired of the talk , mr. speaker .  they are ready for some action .  this is a right step .  it is the right time .  i want to hit two provisions that are included in this bill .  one is streamlining the countless regulations , then helping to prevent some of the frivolous lawsuits .  when we look at streamlining some of the process they have to go through to build a refinery , that is a good thing .  it is going to help us to be able to move forward on refineries in a more expeditious manner .  the other thing is establishing the department of energy as the lead agency for siting refineries and eliminating some of the unnecessary requirements on waiting on multiple bureaucracies to respond to a request to build one refinery .  this is not about bureaucrats and building .  it is about meeting real american needs of real families for energy uses on a daily basis .  mr. speaker , i rise in strong opposition to this bill .  h.r. 3893 will increase the deficit , harm the environment , undermine the states and give charity to oil companies , while doing virtually nothing , virtually nothing , to help consumers .  the whole premise of this bill is faulty : refining capacity in u.s. is increasing .  let me repeat that : refining capacity in the u.s. is increasing , and it has been increasing for a decade .  yes , the number of refineries has declined , but that is irrelevant .  saying that we have less refining capacity today because we have fewer refineries is like saying that we have fewer crops today than we did in 1920 because fewer americans are farming .  it just does not make sense .  it does not pass the laugh test .  not only that , the marketplace offers incentives , and plenty of them , for oil companies , all the incentives they need to build more refineries .  they have record profits and demand for their products keeps increasing .  refining capacity is likely to increase even more with or without this bill responding to the market demand .  but with this bill , we burden taxpayers by sending their hard-earned tax dollars into the pockets of oil companies through rebates and special payments .  with this bill , we interfere with environmental rules designed to improve public health .  with this bill , we take away , take away , authority from the states and local governments .  what we do not do with this bill is take any steps to reduce demand for oil , the only step that will actually reduce the price of gasoline , not to mention to make our nation more secure .  i urge opposition .  the priorities are all wrong .  mr. speaker , i appreciate the gentleman 's comments , the speaker before me , because what he has really laid out is sort of the complaints that we hear from the democrat side of the aisle , the complaints for years when they controlled congress and laid out policies and rules and regulations that prevented , really , people to bring capital at risk to build refineries .  so we hear a lot of complaints , but we do not hear of ideas and actions to help an industry that will help america .  this is a good bill .  i support the bill .  i want to compliment the chairman for his good work .  i also believe that hurricane katrina did reveal a weakness in our energy supply systems , highlighting the reliance this country has on the gulf coast for our energy resources .  approximately 47 percent of the u.s. refining capacity and 28 percent of oil production are located in the hurricane-prone region .  so i think it is time for america to take steps to build more refineries and protect this country in time of natural disaster .  this is a good bill .  it will address our growing need for gasoline , heating oil , and other fuels and will bring more supply to the market and for the american people .  so despite the noise that we maybe hear on the floor , for the american people this is a good bill .  i am concerned , though , that a section of the bill was removed that dealt with the interchange rates , and what we wanted to do was to address the channels of trade to bring more transparency to how credit card companies actually apply these interchange rate fees and how the consumer then picks it up .  i am pleased , in a conversation with the chairman and the gentleman from florida ( mr. stearns )  , they are going to consider having a hearing on the issue ; and i think that is a good thing .  i strongly support the bush administration 's clean diesel rules , which will reduce air pollution from diesel engines by more than 90 percent , and reduce the sulfur content of diesel fuel by more than 95 percent .  these rules will not only help clean the air , but they will also encourage greater use of highly fuel-efficient clean diesel engines .  the use of highly fuel-efficient clean diesel engines is a mandates free way of making our existing domestic refining and oil production go further .  in fact , according to the department of energy , if diesel vehicles made up 20 percent of our fleet in 15 years , we would save 350 , 000 barrels of oil a day .  i understand the challenges that so-called `` boutique fuels '' present .  section 108 takes steps towards addressing these challenges .  however , i want to make it clear that i have been assured by the chairman of the energy and commerce committee , the gentleman from texas , that section 108 of the legislation does not intend to alter or delay -- in any way -- the bush administration 's on- and off-road diesel rules .  mr. speaker , i demand a recorded vote .  mr. speaker , i reserve the balance of my time .  mr. speaker , i yield myself such time as i may consume .  mr. speaker , this is one of the two most important bills that has come before this congress maybe in the last 10 years , one we passed a couple or 3 months ago .  this bill is not just important to us in congress that we pass something ; it is not just important to companies that have to adhere to the contents of it ; not just to the big oil companies , as they have been referred to , we need them , they need us , we need what they can do for us ; but it is important to the youth of our nation .  this is really a generational bill because it affects your children and my children and my grandchildren .  i probably have asked myself a dozen times what is the primary duty of a member of congress .  it is probably to prevent a war .  and how do you do that ?  you do that by removing the causes of war , and energy or lack of energy is a major cause of most wars that i know anything about or remember .  who fights wars ?  your children do .  they are today in school , juniors or seniors or maybe in junior college , totally unaware of what we are doing here , but so affected by what we do .  our children have to fight wars , not us anymore .  about 64 years ago i was a senior in high school , and i heard frank roosevelt at that podium right there stand up and say in a speech after our nation had been attacked , `` to some generations much is given , of some generations , much is expected , & lt ; center & gt ; & lt ; pre & gt ; [ page : h8771 ] & lt ; /pre & gt ; & lt ; /center & gt ; so , mr. speaker , of course i rise today in support of h.r. 3893 .  while the impetus for the bill arose from tragedy , it opened our eyes to the vulnerability of our nation 's gasoline supply and causes us to act to prevent the price spikes and shortages from happening again , and everything we have said or done here on this floor is going to be in the & lt ; /em & gt ; & lt ; em & gt ; congressional record for the american people to see .  i would hate to say that i opposed everything that had been offered to solve the energy crisis .  there has not been a new refinery built in some 25 or 30 years , and the ones that are currently running are doing so at 95 percent of operating capacity and at peak times of the year , even higher .  the main thrust of this bill before us today encourages the building of new refineries , and in more diverse locations .  it gives areas with closed military bases a chance to convert these bases into refineries so that they can keep their citizens employed and remain economically stable .  i have one in my district at texarkana , not subject to the vicissitudes of nature or the hurricanes ; it is inland far enough .  there are other areas in here .  i hope consideration is given to them .  i encourage my colleagues to vote for h.r. 3893 insomuch as it is a bill that addresses head-on the high price of gasoline and provides solutions from supply to conservation .  i am tired of seeing my constituents have to pay almost 3 bucks for a gallon of gas .  if you want your constituents to keep on paying these exorbitant prices , then go ahead and vote against this bill .  if you want to help them , like i do , i ask my colleagues to vote `` yes. '' mr. speaker , i reserve the balance of my time .  mr. speaker , people are sick and tired of the two words , do nothing .  and that is just no answer to folks who are startled when they go to gas their vehicle , 50 bucks , 60 bucks , $ 70 to fill it up .  they are startled that we have airlines that are flying full and going broke because of the cost of energy , and we just can not afford to do nothing .  let me just list a few of the areas here of the stupak substitute that do nothing .  it will do nothing to limit boutique fuels that have propped up gasoline prices by artificially limiting supply .  it will do nothing to encourage private industry to build new refineries that will increase daily supplies of gasoline .  it will do nothing to help diversify our domestic refining capacity away from the gulf coast .  it will do nothing to help site crude oil and petroleum product pipelines that transport gasoline to americans .  it will do nothing to help small refineries utilize their capacity to increase supply and encourage robust competition in the industry .  it will do nothing to provide authority to the president to temporarily waive federal , state and local fuel additive requirements in the event of an extreme and unusual supply circumstance caused by a natural disaster , which proved to be critical in the wake of katrina and rita .  it will do nothing to encourage conservation like carpooling mr. speaker , i would say to the gentleman from texas ( mr. barton )  , i appreciate the expeditious way he has responded to this crises .  if there is a silver lining to the hurricane katrina crisis , it is that it has opened the eyes of congress and our business community to the urgent need to add to the capacity of our oil refineries .  the fact that gas prices shot up in the wake of this monstrous hurricane is a reflection of the reality that we do not have the capability to meet the sort of refining needs the country has that will put the kind of pressure on gas prices that are so important to our consuming public .  hurricane katrina is telling us very clearly that we have a challenge and an opportunity here to increase that capacity .  in the last year , i met on several occasions with adel al-jubeir , a representative of the country of saudi arabia .  on any number of occasions he has rather smiled at me saying america does not have the capacity to provide the gasoline that your consuming public needs .  you have not built a refinery in three generations .  we do have that opportunity by this action today , and i strongly urge the house to recognize it .  this is the one chance for us to make a long-term commitment to reducing gasoline prices .  i strongly urge an `` aye '' vote on this measure .  mr. chairman , as you know , the high energy costs are having a very negative effect on the low income home energy assistance program , and many state liheap programs are expecting a major increase in applications and need for additional funding immediately to help ensure low-income families and seniors can afford to heat their homes .  i recently joined with more than 100 of my colleagues in writing to the committee on appropriations members requesting $ 1.276 billion in additional liheap funding , and i hope , mr. chairman , that you would work with me and other members who share those concerns to make sure this very important assistance program will be available to those who need it in the upcoming winter heating season .  mr. speaker , we find ourselves with so many things happening now .  we have increased gasoline prices , increased winter heating costs , natural gas prices are up , manufacturing jobs are down , all because the cost of energy has remained high .  our demand for oil has grown , our production simply can not meet demands , and this has caused increased prices .  we have increased population , and we want more manufacturers to remain in the united states .  that means that we have to do something .  mr. speaker , we do not need another hurricane to remind us that our energy infrastructure is wholly inadequate .  had we taken action to prevent our energy problems years ago , we would not have been vulnerable to natural disasters .  for 30 years , we sat back .  we did not want to study it .  we did not want to take inventories .  we did not want to explore .  we resisted drilling for oil or gas .  we did not build refineries .  we did not move to develop clean coal technology .  we did not build nuclear power plants over those 30 years , while demand grew .  and eventually the system snapped .  we did the same thing over and over again and expected different results .  until our refining capacity and production capacity expands , our oil markets will remain vulnerable to disruptions .  we have to have increased conservation measures .  we have to have the car-pooling measures in this bill .  we have to have energy-efficient cars , but we have to have more refineries .  during the last 30 years , our dependence or foreign energy has increased from 24 to 62 percent .  how much further do we have to go ?  the american people understand this , and that is why they support this .  that is why labor unions support this bill .  that is why we have to move this forward .  the gasoline for america 's security act builds on the energy policy act of 2005 and keeps us moving in the right direction .  it addresses a great deal of what we need , the use of biomass debris , car pooling , van pooling , requirements to direct the ftc to conduct an investigation into nationwide gasoline prices , and it does include anti-price-gouging measures .  the other side says repeatedly it is not in there , but it does .  it has anti-price-gouging measures and enforcement for gasoline , for diesel , for home heating oil , for crude oil .  it is massive .  there will be a temptation to blame the high gas prices on the storms alone or to use politics to block this .  but the american people understand , you can not drive a car with politics in your tank or heat a home with politics .  i support the rule and this bill .  mr. speaker , i rise in opposition to the stupak substitute and in support of the underlying legislation .  i want to thank the gentleman from texas ( mr. barton )  , the chairman of the committee , my friend , for his leadership .  we have seen this year that we have passed comprehensive energy legislation , but that legislation did not address really the linchpin of the need in our country for greater refining capacity and greater pipeline security , redundancy and reliability .  katrina exposed that fundamental weakness in our nation 's energy security and in our nation 's economic security .  for 30 years , we have done nothing .  we have not had a new refinery come into our nation .  no one has invested .  and much of that reason is that the cost of doing business , a refinery investment in this country , is so much higher than offshore .  if we can streamline the regulatory process , give new incentives so that companies will invest in our country and new pipeline security and redundancy and reliability , as well as a new refining capacity , then we can do something about high gas prices and the disruptions that occur in a natural disaster like katrina .  we must act .  we can not fail to act .  we have seen the fundamental flaw and weakness .  it has been exposed with katrina , and the other side reminds me of those who , when a barn is burning and the fire truck is wanting to come and put the fire out and do something about it , they stand in the way and block the road and then want to blame the fire department for failing to put the fire out .  now is the time to act .  the chairman of the committee has shown remarkable speed in getting this legislation to the floor .  we need to act .  it is what the american people want .  they would agree with us .  give us a chance to do something to make it better .  mr. speaker , i am a little surprised by the discourse from my colleagues on the other side of the aisle , very 1960s rhetoric for a 2005 problem .  you can not regulate and put hurdles and tell the oil industry that is really global these days that you can not build refining capacity in america .  it is bad .  most americans , when they saw the hurricane strike , realized that 30 percent of our refineries were at risk , 30 percent .  they understood that you can not concentrate our refineries in one place and that you have to have more capacity .  the reason it is expensive is because we import refined product .  americans understand that .  your rhetoric today , the old-fashioned ideas of regulate and hinder and put hurdles up , will not solve these problems .  it took 20 years to get here because we would not allow them to build refineries across this country to meet public demand .  i tell you , i have working families in my district that pull up to that pump and talk about mortgaging their house in order to get it completely full .  this is a serious problem , and it needs serious solutions .  this bill goes a long way .  it says we are going to protect the environment , we are encouraging some conservation , and we are going to build capacity so that we do not have to have this foreign dependence on refined product .  i thank the chairman for doing this .  this is the responsible thing to do , moving this country forward , and putting us in a place where we are not foreign-dependent and we have the ability to lower the prices and give stable prices in the future in this great country .  mr. speaker , i thank the chairman for putting this bill together .  i want to talk about one very important provision of this bill , and i want to endorse the passage of this legislation .  this legislation builds on progress we had in the energy bill dealing with boutique fuels , but what i want to do is explain the problem we have with boutique gasoline blends in america .  today we have 18 different fuel types , which translates into 45 different fuel blends .  this map of america looks like a piece of modern art and shows the different fuel blends we have to have running through america today .  when we designed our pipeline and refinery system three generations ago , it was designed for one kind of gasoline : conventional gasoline .  today we have to pump 45 different blends of gasoline through that system .  any time there is a problem with supply , a pipeline break , a hurricane , a refinery fire , what happens ?  the price of gas skyrockets .  there are refineries that can not even make the needed gasoline for particular areas .  the problem is getting worse .  this map is because we have 217 counties that have to have some kind of reformulated boutique fuel .  because of the new , 8-hour ozone regulations this year , 474 counties will have to adopt new blends of gasoline so the problem will get even worse if we do nothing .  this bill fixes that .  this bill says that , over the next year , the epa and the doe will have to design a six-fuel-blend system .  so we go from 18 different base blends with 45 different fuels down to six fuels , to make sure we can meet and exceed our clean air act standards , no compromise on those , and have stable , fungible blends of gasoline .  mr. speaker , we can have cheap gas and clean gas at the same time in this country .  we need to harmonize our gasoline blends so we have standard , stable blends of gasoline .  if we do that , we stabilize the supply .  if we do that , we stabilize the price .  i urge passage of this legislation .  mr. speaker , 1976 was a great year .  we built our last refinery in this country , and i graduated from high school .  that is too long for that to occur .  our domestic demand for crude oil averages 21 million barrels a day .  we refine only 17 million barrels a day .  that means we import gasoline .  people understand we have a dependence upon foreign oil .  what they do not understand and find incredibly ridiculous is that we import refined product just making us more dependent on the industry .  this is a great piece of legislation , and anyone from coal country ought to support it .  coal to liquid , fisher trove technology developed during world war ii is evident in production in south africa today .  what we have done in this bill is we have taken the definition of refinery and added coal to liquid , which means we can harvest the great coal reserves of this country .  we can turn them into clean fuel and use that clean fuel to reduce our demand for foreign oil .  we are also able to disburse our refinery assets around the country so we are not held hostage by having 47 percent of our refineries in hurricane alley .  this bill is a tremendous step forward in decreasing our reliance on foreign oil , new technology , diversifying our refinery portfolio , and i ask all of my colleagues to join me in support of this legislation .  mr. speaker , i would like to address my friends and colleagues .  we have got a lot of good members on the committee on energy and commerce , and i have great respect for my friends , the gentleman from michigan ( mr. stupak )  and the gentleman from virginia ( mr. boucher )  , who come here with serious public policy concerns .  i want to speak on an issue they do not address , in fact , i think they roll back , which i think is critical to addressing the price spike , and that is boutique fuels .  i will just give an example .  when i fly back home , i fill up in st .  louis .  i fill up my vehicle in st .  louis , and then i drive across the river to my hometown in collinsville , which is 30 minutes from the st .  louis airport , and then i drive up to springfield , illinois , which is the northern part of my district , probably 100 , maybe 200 miles separation , i go through three different fuel markets .  in other words , the unleaded gas i burn in st .  louis is not allowed to be purchased and bought in illinois , and it is not allowed to be purchased and sold in springfield , even though i am burning that fuel and driving back and forth .  these environmental regulations on the boutique fuels really make sense .  what makes it more difficult is that when you have constrained refinery capacity and you have one refinery producing for one area of the country , when that refinery has a disruption or goes down , then there is no way you can get fuel in there unless you waive environmental regulations , which is what the bill allows us to do if there is a natural disaster or hurricane .  it says we need to move fuel from st .  louis to springfield , illinois ; mr. president , you can waive those regulations .  so we should not discount the importance of addressing this boutique fuel .  boutique fuels , 48 to 58 different fuel brands around our country , will be pared down to six so that we can still meet the needs of the different regions of the country without holding us hostage .  i thank the chairman for the time .  mr. speaker , what have members been hearing in their districts ?  i will tell members what i have been hearing : there is a constant uproar and anguish about the gas prices across this country .  one of the home builders that i met with earlier this week , it cost him $ 94 to fill up his pickup .  sadly , i do not see that price going down any time soon .  this is a long-term , not a short-term , problem .  worldwide , we consume what we produce .  this country uses 25 percent of the world 's energy , yet we have only 2.5 percent of the world 's energy reserves .  and in fact in alaska , we are getting 50 percent of what we got only 7 years ago .  the energy bill signed in august will help us in the long term , but it will not help us in the short term .  this bill will help us in the long term , not in the short term .  we have heard the arguments .  we have fewer refineries than we had 30 years ago .  we have not built a new refinery in a generation .  we need more , and this bill will bring that about .  we have dozens of boutique fuels , 45 different blends of gasoline to serve this country .  that means we have a different blend for st .  louis than milwaukee than detroit than los angeles than houston than philadelphia than washington .  it is crazy .  this bill is going to reduce that from 45 blends to no more than six or eight .  the bottom line is if we are not happy with $ 3 gas , we need to vote `` yes '' on this bill .  we need to send it to the senate .  i will remind my colleagues that this bill passed by a voice vote after 16 hours of markup , and i applaud the gentleman from texas ( mr. barton )  , my chairman , for making sure we did it in a bipartisan way .  mr. speaker , one of the things that bothered me at the time of katrina and then rita was when you saw on the television long lines of cars at gas stations that were charging $ 5 or $ 6 for gas that you knew they did not pay that much to get in there .  i do not believe that disasters should be a windfall for opportunists , and i appreciate the chairman and his staff working with us over the last week to strengthen the price-gouging provisions in this bill .  currently , under current law , most price-gouging statutes are at the state level , and only 23 states in the nation have price-gouging statutes .  the only authority at the federal level is through antitrust laws .  you have to have two companies colluding in order to investigate it .  with this bill , that will change for the first time .  for the first time , there will be federal authority under the federal trade commission to investigate price gouging after a disaster area has been declared .  we have worked to strengthen this bill from the committee .  the fines will be up to $ 11 , 000 per instance .  it will apply in a disaster area and also beyond that disaster area if the president expands the area of coverage .  it covers any person or company , not just the retailers , but up and down the supply chain , and it applies to gasoline , crude oil , home heating oil and natural gas .  it is quite a broad provision compared to what we had coming out of the committee .  i want to thank the chairman for his leadership and his staff for really strengthening the price-gouging provisions in this bill and , for the first time in this country , giving the federal government the tools they need to combat people who are taking advantage of terrible situations and take care of this problem of windfalls .  mr. speaker , times of tragedy should not be windfalls for opportunists in the wake of hurricane katrina gas prices fluctuated to upwards of $ 6.00 in some communities .  prosecution for price gouging is generally a state matter unless it involves some form of collusion or other activity in violation of federal laws .  only 23 states have anti-gouging laws on the books , and definitions vary widely .  only 13 of those states have emergency anti-gouging laws .  the aftermath of hurricane katrina has shown that the patchwork of state anti-gouging laws does not work to deter opportunists .  while the federal trade commission ( ftc ) monitors gas prices and investigates possible antitrust violations in the petroleum industry , there is no federal law to prohibit price gouging by individual bad actors .  i welcome h.r. 3893 the gasoline for america 's security ( gas ) act of 2005 price gouging language .  it incorporates penalties of up to $ 11 , 000 per violation and covers retail and wholesale sellers of crude oil , gasoline , diesel fuel and home heating oil .  the gas act requires the ftc to enact a price gouging definition as soon as possible within six months , an improvement from the potential delay in the language reported out of committee .  the house should pass a strong price gouging law that would be in effect in disaster areas .  this bill includes a strong national policy providing stiff penalties for gasoline price gouging .  times of tragedy should not be windfalls for opportunists .  i urge my colleagues to vote in favor of h.r. 3893 , the gasoline for america 's security act of 2005 .  mr. speaker , i hope the american people are watching this debate ; and if they are watching this debate on tv , i hope they have a video recorder , because they need to record this debate .  when you are talking in your church or in your home or where you work about high fuel prices , you can play this and let people see why we have the prices that we have right now ; why they are going to be paying more for home heating oil ; why they are paying more for gasoline , because this side of the aisle over here does not understand the problems that we have in this country .  play it ; listen to it .  you are an individual out there .  you can car pool if you want to .  if you want to buy a car that gets 50 miles to the gallon , they make them every day .  you can go buy them by the hundreds .  if you want to buy a car that gets 10 miles to the gallon , that is up to you .  you are an individual , and you have individual responsibilities .  let us quit blaming the people who are trying to be leaders in this country and put us on the right track for an energy policy .  mr. speaker , i rise today in vigorous support of h.r. 3893 .  this bill takes us back to earth in reality .  this bill recognizes the need for increased supplies of refined petroleum products and takes the necessary steps to increase refining capacity .  no new refinery has been constructed in the united states since 1976 .  we just heard the numbers earlier .  the demand for gasoline exceeds domestic production by an average of 4 million barrels per day .  this growing gap is met by importing refined petroleum from foreign sources , which is a threat to market stability and national security .  refining capacity is not being increased , due in part to a permitting process that is overly cumbersome and capital intensive .  the two hurricanes only further exposed the lack of a comprehensive national energy security policy .  currently , 20 percent of our nation 's refinery production is shut down .  600 , 000 barrels are off line in my southwest louisiana district .  this bill makes the necessary commitments to expand and diversify the refining industry in this country .  by reforming and expediting a permitting process that is excessively slow and nearly impossible to navigate , we will enable refiners to meets the energy needs of america 's citizens .  this legislation would not circumvent or remove any environmental protection , but would simply coordinate and streamline the process .  it would also encourage investment in new pipelines and expansion of existing infrastructure to transport petroleum products more efficiently and at a lower cost to consumers .  the farmers of louisiana need to harvest crops .  the industries of louisiana need to rebuild , and families of louisiana would like to return .  affordable energy is going to be an important factor in our ability to do that .  the people of my district have realized the responsibility of providing fuel for this nation for a long time , and they are happy to do so .  it is now time to give them the tools to meet this growing task and share it with others .  i urge the passage of this bill .  mr. chairman , i thank the gentleman from wisconsin for the time .  unfortunately , the food industry has been targeted by a variety of unfounded legal claims which allege businesses should pay monetary damages and be subject to equitable remedies based on novel legal theories of liability for the overconsumption of its legal products .  obesity is a problem in america , but it is not evident that the availability of high-fat food or restaurants are the sole cause .  a number of studies have shown that a lack of physical activity , that is , not exercising , has contributed to the rise of obesity and not solely one 's caloric intake .  in the subcommittee on commercial and administrative law , which i chaired last congress , we explored the threat the food industry and its workers face from frivolous litigation , the threat to personal responsibility posed by the proliferation of such litigation , and the need for passage of the personal responsibility in food consumption act .  since the gentleman from florida ( mr. keller )  introduced a similar bill last year , 21 states have passed laws banning these so-called obesity lawsuits .  the opponents of this bill will claim that this shows that congress should not intervene .  in reality , it means we must .  without a complete ban on these frivolous lawsuits , rogue trial lawyers , and i have many trial lawyers who are friends and who work very hard to get the appropriate kind of compensation for people who are injured , but many of these rogue trial lawyers will forum shop until they find a state and a district that gets them the exorbitant payday that they seek .  i would remind my colleagues that john banzhaf , an attorney who testified last year against this bill , stated in 2003 , `` somewhere , there is going to be a judge and a jury that will buy this , and once we get the first verdict , as we did with tobacco , it will open the floodgates. '' it is unlikely that lawsuits against food establishments over their menus will make us healthier .  such lawsuits will threaten thousands of jobs and , more importantly , such lawsuits send the wrong message regarding personal choices and personal responsibility .  do we want our kids growing up believing it is always someone else 's fault ?  mr. chairman , it is not only important , but also fundamental that americans have access to courts to address their legitimate wrongs and the harms that they cause .  the trial bar serves an invaluable purpose in helping average americans gain rightful and proportionate compensation when harm is done .  however , frivolous lawsuits such as the ones this legislation seeks to prevent serve only to undermine our legal system and those who truly need its protections and the moral fiber of americans who should be self-reliant and responsible for their choices .  mr. chairman , i urge my colleagues to support the underlying bill , h.r. 554 .  mr. chairman , how much time remains ?  mr. chairman , i yield myself such time as i may consume .  the gentleman is talking about various kinds of supplements .  he mentioned ephedra and other supplements to help people lose weight .  that is a substantial distinction here .  if a person buys a supplement and there has been misleading advertising or the manufacturer knows of adverse effects and does not communicate those , and if that constitutes a violation of law , a lawsuit is not prohibited by this legislation .  this legislation is going the other way and saying you can not sue people if you get fat because you make wrong choices , as opposed to you have had some kind of injury or illness because of a misadvertised or otherwise inappropriate utilization of a supplement .  madam chairman , i am pleased to be a cosponsor of this legislation that will help curtail frivolous lawsuits .  it is reassuring to see the congress is taking measures to help rid our court system of lawsuits that are costly and hurt those consumers and businesses in our country .  twelve million people in this country are employed by businesses in the food industry , making it the nation 's largest private sector employer .  this is an industry that has a direct impact on the nation 's economy , and these fast-food obesity lawsuits are opposed by nearly nine in 10 americans .  the idea that holding the food industry liable for the excess of some individuals will combat obesity is unfounded .  individuals , not restaurants , are responsible for food choices that they make freely in their own daily lives .  in addition , the food addressed by this legislation is legal and unadulterated , and the rights of individuals to pursue lawsuits resulting from claims like the mislabeling of food or food safety issues is preserved .  our country has a history of providing its citizens with a safe and affordable food supply .  it is unacceptable to make arguments that certain types of food that are sold in certain types of restaurants as a result of consumer demand are somehow dangerous and that the average consumer must bear the burden in higher food costs because of the overindulgence by some individuals who file these types of lawsuits .  this bill is not about whether fast food causes obesity .  the bill is about self-responsibility .  today , the congress of the united states is saying to a select group of lawyers that laws are not intended to protect people from these types of excesses , from essentially eating too much , and the courtrooms were never meant for that reason .  it is really pretty simple .  if you eat too much , you get fat .  it is your fault .  do not try to blame somebody else .  mr. speaker , by direction of the committee on rules , i call up house resolution 494 and ask for its immediate consideration .  mr. speaker , i yield myself such time as i may consume , following which i will yield 2 minutes to the gentlewoman from michigan .  mr. speaker , this bill , the personal responsibility in food consumption act , h.r. 554 , is all about , again , personal responsibility and to point out how ludicrous it would be if we allowed personal injury lawsuits against the food industry or any other company that makes a legitimate product .  we just talked earlier in the afternoon , mr. speaker , in regard to gun manufacturers .  mr. speaker , let me just give an example , if i might .  this is a belt , an alligator belt .  in fact , it is my belt .  size 36 .  i have a size 36 waist .  this belt , i am proud to say , is hand-finished , american alligator , produced right here in the good old u.s.a .  this alligator skin was obtained from a louisiana hunt , it says on this belt , 1993 , manufactured by the trafalgar limited belt company , a good company .  and the belt has served me very well .  size 36 fits me well .  mr. speaker , let us suppose now that i decided , it is unlikely that i would do this , but let us suppose i decided i wanted to wear a size 42 and i punched a few extra holes in this belt , which is a size 36 , so i could wear it and buckle it with a size 42 pair of trousers .  these trousers fell right to my knees in a public place .  i do not think i should have the right to sue the belt company because i used its product in a manner that it was not designed to use .  i could go out and buy myself a size 42 belt .  let me give another example , and this is more likely .  let us suppose i really felt like my waist was a size 34 , and so i cinched this belt up really good so i could proudly say i am not a 36 , i have a 34 inch waist at my age .  i would feel pretty good about myself .  but , unfortunately , mr. speaker , there is a nerve at my waist called the lateral femoral cutaneous nerve .  if someone puts too much pressure around their waist by wearing a belt inappropriately , by cinching it up too tightly , they put compression on that nerve , that lateral femoral cutaneous nerve , and i speak from knowledge on this from 30 years as a practicing physician .  that condition , my colleagues can look it up , but i will share it with them , it is called meralgia paresthetica .  if members do not believe me , look it up .  it creates tremendous numbness and loss of feeling in the anterior part of the thigh .  let us suppose someone misused this belt and wore it as a size 34 and decided for that reason to sue this trafalgar company , this good , solid american company that makes this belt , for damages .  that is totally ridiculous and ludicrous , and that is why this bill is so important .  that is why it is called personal responsibility .  mr. speaker , i yield myself the balance of my time .  mr. speaker , i would like to close by thanking my colleagues for a productive discussion on the rule and the underlying bill .  today , this house has an opportunity to again pass meaningful reform to not only promote personal accountability but also to strengthen the opportunities for legitimate claims to be heard and adjudicated .  let us take one more step to turn back the tide of so-called `` jackpot justice. '' while runaway juries and frivolous lawsuits might make a few individuals and certain ambulance-chasing lawyers rich , the american people ultimately pay the price both economically and socially .  mr. speaker , discouraging individuals from taking personal responsibility does not help anyone .  in fact , it will only make matters worse .  encouraging healthy lifestyles and wise dietary choices should always trump rewarding poor decisions by shifting the blame to innocent bystanders .  the personal responsibility in food consumption act of 2005 is a good bill , and i look forward to further discussing its merits on the house floor today .  mr. speaker , as i mentioned earlier , a strong bipartisan majority passed this bill in the last congress ; and i have no reason to doubt that we should be able to pass it again by a similar , maybe even a stronger , margin ; and i urge my colleagues to support this rule and the underlying bill .  mr. speaker , i yield back the balance of my time , and i move the previous question on the resolution .  the previous question was ordered .  mr. speaker , on that i demand the yeas and nays .  mr. speaker , i thank the gentleman from pennsylvania ( mr. murphy )  for leading this hour during this week of children 's health care initiative and calling attention to the health of our children .  the gentleman from pennsylvania ( mr. murphy )  has worked extensively in the field of psychology , particularly child psychology .  he has actually written a book and has another coming out soon on the subject .  i think as we get further into the hour , we probably will discuss a little about bit about how important a child 's not only physical health but their mental health is .  but i do appreciate the opportunity that the gentleman has given me , mr. speaker , to share some of this time with him .  my background in a prior life , my professional experience was for 30 years in the practice of medicine , and the specialty that i enjoyed practicing was obstetrics and gynecology ; and we have that opportunity in that field of medicine to see a child at the very beginnings of life and know how critically important a good start is .  we talk about some of the things that this republican majority has done , some of the very good programs since president bush has been in office , certainly not the least of which is no child left behind regarding our k-12 education program .  but it is so important from the health care perspective that no child is left behind from the moment of conception .  so i do want to talk a little bit about the importance of prenatal care and actually call my colleagues ' attention to this one poster that i have here regarding prenatal care , entitled `` proper prenatal care leads to healthy children. '' no question about it .  some of the bullet points , these may be a little bit difficult to see , mr. speaker , but hopefully we can focus the camera in on the bullet points .  first of all , 1 million , 1 million , american women deliver babies annually without receiving prenatal care .  secondly , in the united states , more than 250 , 000 low birth weight infants are born each year .  more than 250 , 000 .  now , for my colleagues ' understanding , a low birth weight infant is one that weighs less than 2 , 500 grams .  that is about 5 1/2 pounds .  those children are not all premature .  in some instances they are unhealthy children who are near term , but low birth weight .  but most of them , most of these 250 , 000 low birth weight infants are actually born premature as well .  and the third bullet point , low birth weight infants are more likely to suffer from disabilities , things like heart defects and respiratory illnesses .  they are four times more likely to prematurely die than infants with a normal birth weight .  i have had many situations , mr. speaker , as an obstetrician having delivered over 5 , 000 children , where women come into the emergency room having had no prenatal care .  and they are clearly the ones who are more likely to deliver these low birth weight babies and deliver them prematurely .  that is why i think it is so important , and i know the gentleman from pennsylvania ( mr. murphy )  would agree with me , that when we emphasize the issue , the immigration issue , of securing our borders and want to make sure that every immigrant that comes into this country comes here legally and has an opportunity to get prenatal care , as , of course , many of those who come in an illegal manner are afraid or do not now how or where to get prenatal care and will just show up in the emergency room having delivered an unhealthy premature that is just the beginning of the cost , because if there is a disability that is long lasting or maybe even lasting a lifetime , and that is often the case , whether it is a heart defect or a musculoskeletal deformity or a mental defect as a result of lack of oxygen , sometimes even blindness , the cost is just astronomical .  so it is so important , it is so important , that we do things in this congress at the federal level to encourage that women get prenatal care and that children are born healthy and that , indeed , no infant , not just no child left behind , but no infant is left behind .  so i just wanted to go over with my colleagues some of the things in regard to prenatal care that are so important that i always stress to my patients : of course , encouraging immunizations and vitamin supplements , monitoring of diet , increased physical activity , clearly to avoid smoking and alcohol use during pregnancy and drug use .  certainly any drug use that is nonprescription or not under the jurisdiction and guidance of a physician is to be discouraged .  environmental factors are hugely important .  as i say , a healthy diet , a regular weight check , physical activity , all of these things are so important .  and then to come see the physician on a regular basis during the pregnancy .  this is how we avoid , mr. speaker , these 1 million american women delivering babies annually either without receiving prenatal care or ending up with premature deliveries .  i want to , if the gentleman would allow me , to expand on this a bit .  it is not just being born healthy and well ; but the first 5 years of life , what happens to the child after that is tremendously important as well .  i have a grandson , little grey collins .  he will be a year old soon .  and it is so much fun to see him , and i often have that opportunity to see him , watching the little baby einstein tapes , that he is hugged many times a day and loved by his parents and grandparents and his aunts and uncles and how important it is to provide that love and affection to a child and let them know that they are loved , and we will get into that .  i am sure the gentleman from pennsylvania ( mr. murphy )  will talk about that later in the hour as he discusses things like childhood obesity and childhood mental health .  but i wanted to speak a little bit about a program that we just reauthorized in the last couple of weeks here in this 109th congress , and what i am talking about is the head start program .  sometimes we get criticized , we , the republican majority , that we do not care enough about social programs and we do not care enough about the poor and underprivileged and people that do not maybe have the same opportunity that the upper middle class society has .  but let me tell the members we do care .  we do care .  and this reauthorization is proof of the pudding .  just a little historical perspective on that .  head start and its cousin , early head start or comprehensive child development programs , serving children from birth to age 5 , as i stated , as well as pregnant women and their families , the critical component of the head start program is that it is child focused with the overall goal to increase school readiness of young children in low-income families , mr. speaker .  the head start program has a long tradition of delivering comprehensive and high-quality services designed to foster healthy development in children that need our help the most .  the program provides a range of individualized services in areas of education , early childhood development , but not stopping there .  it also offers medical , dental , and mental health services to these children and to their families .  it even goes a step further by providing nutritional counseling and encouraging parental involvement in their child 's development .  it is a rich program .  i have got a lot of statistics , and as we continue the hour , i will relate some of those specifics , particularly in regard to the reauthorization and how much we are doing in that program .  but i just wanted to point out , as i know the gentleman from pennsylvania ( mr. murphy )  agrees , how important it is that we do everything we can to make sure that our children get a good start in life .  and as i have stated at the outset , the prenatal care aspect is hugely important .  programs like the early head start and head start program so that the children , all children , when they get to that 5-year-old kindergarten class or get to the first grade , that they have an equal opportunity with their peers and they are not starting school with one hand tied behind their back .  so it is hugely important that they are healthy , that they are happy , that they are loved and they have an opportunity , as we all want , in life .  at this point i will continue to be here with the gentleman from pennsylvania ( mr. murphy )  during this hour .  mr. speaker , as the gentleman pointed out , and he is so right , we need to move into the 21st century in regard to our health care system and modeling .  just trying to come up with better drugs and the latest surgery techniques to treat complicated illness is not enough .  we really need to focus on preventive care .  you are talking about in the last few minutes , of course , your specialty , in talking about mental illness , and as it relates also to childhood obesity , and i could not help but think as i was listening to your discussion , and as you know , this week we just passed h.r. 554 .  h.r. 554 is the personal responsibility in food consumption act of 2005 .  this is a bill my colleagues are aware of the fact it would not allow someone to sue a fast food manufacturer because they have gorged themselves with a multiple number of big macs or any other kind of fast food , or sometimes what we refer to as junk food .  it is not the fault of the food industry .  i used a little analogy when i was talking about this on the floor yesterday in discussing the rule of my belt , which is a size 36 .  that is , i hate to admit , the size of my waist , but if i wanted really out of blind pride to suggest that i had a 24-inch waist and i cinched that belt down a couple of notches , in doing so , i put pressure , compression on something referred to as the lateral femoral cutaneous nerve , it would result in a condition of numbness and lack of feeling on the anterior thigh .  then should i go out and sue the belt company because they are at fault because i misused a product ?  this is what this bill , of course , is all about , a common-sense type bill .  parenthetically , mr. speaker , i also want to mention the gentleman from florida ( mr. keller )  , the author of the bill , our good friend and colleague , is actually in the hospital now and recovering hopefully from a fairly minor condition , but we want to pay tribute to him .  i know he is proud that we passed this bill this week .  the comment that i wanted to make is this issue of personal responsibility , and parents should have that personal responsibility obviously in the way they conduct themselves in regard to how they eat and a healthy diet and exercise , but even more importantly is the responsibility that they have to give a good example and instruction to their children .  i think it is probably the worst form of child abuse to let these youngsters that at a very early age overeat and become obese .  you have talked about the issue of poor mental image , self-image , and of course , i also see you talked about hollywood and , of course , this issue of there is no such thing as mental illness .  i think probably they might predominate in some of those diseases , which we categorize as mental illness .  but quite honestly , when a child goes to school and there is this emphasis on thinness and you see these youngsters wearing these britney spears ' jeans and that sort of thing , a child even a little bit overweight and certainly one that is significantly obese , of course they are going to have a poor image of themselves .  they are going to withdraw , and they are going to become shy .  it is very likely they are going to be picked on .  how in the world can they grow and develop with a healthy self-image ?  no wonder they end up needing to be counseled and treated by the gentleman from pennsylvania ( mr. murphy )  and other mental health care specialists .  yes , unfortunately , some even go on to harm themselves and possibly even commit suicide .  so i guess the most important thing that i would want to say as a physician member is that we need to prevent this .  we need to make sure that parents get the message that they have an obligation , not just to take care of themselves , but first and foremost to take care of these precious children that they bring into the world .  it is their responsibility to make sure that they are from the very beginning , when they start eating at the table , to make sure that they are healthy and stay healthy so you do not have to have them ending up in your office treating them for not only mental illness but also the many complications of obesity .  you mentioned them .  you mentioned diabetes , high blood pressure , so many things .  and talk about the cost to this health care system of ours .  we always talk about waste , fraud , and abuse in the medicare and the medicaid programs and wanting to eliminate that , and we are very diligent and will continue to be so .  but this is almost a no-brainer .  it is like we heard former speaker newt gingrich say to a group of us earlier today , and the gentleman from pennsylvania was a part of that as we had him come to speak to members of the house .  we are not talking about low-hanging fruit here in regard to saving money and saving lives .  we are talking about fruit that is lying on the ground sitting there rotting waiting for us to pick it up .  so clearly that is what my message would be in regard to that .  without question probably the most common condition that we see in smoking moms is something called toxemia of pregnancy .  toxemia , by the very word , it is a poison .  we do not know exactly what that poison is , but something occurs in those moms that develop toxemia .  it is not always because of smoking , but frequently it is .  and also so often that condition will lead also to pre-term labor and delivery and one of these low birth weight infants .  in the extreme , toxemia of pregnancy before birth results in a very , very high blood pressure .  it can cause a stroke , a deep coma , one from which sometimes the mother never recovers and the child is lost .  so we are talking about one of the worst complications of pregnancy other than just out and out exsanguination from bleeding , which is also a possibility in any pregnancy .  but smoking , we see that condition more often .  and then , of course , childhood asthma , which i am sure the gentleman has seen plenty of cases of that , youngsters that come in because there is that secondary smoke situation .  not only do they have to suffer with it during the 9 months of pregnancy of their mom ; but once they are born , that smoking continues in the household .  so it is a huge complication , no question about that .  the gentleman is so right , and i appreciate the opportunity to weigh in on this issue .  this issue of scoring , as the gentleman is talking about , it reminds me of course of the debate during the medicare modernization and prescription drug act that we passed in december of 2003 .  of course , that part d will go into effect and the modernization piece is already in effect for medicare , but part d , the prescription drug part , will start january 1. but all we heard and continue to hear , particularly from the other side and for those nay-sayers who keep wanting to talk negative about really a very good program that is going to be a godsend for our neediest seniors , i talked about this on the floor , my colleagues i know heard me last night .  but the talk , the emphasis is on the cost of part d , and the cost estimate is based on the number of seniors that participate ultimately .  i do not think anybody really knows , mr. speaker , what that number will be ; but at one point it looked like the cbo said , well , it is going to be $ 400 billion additional medicare cost over a 5-year period of time .  then those numbers were revised , and then we were hearing as much maybe as $ 750 billion .  that is the scoring that the gentleman from pennsylvania is talking about , and my colleagues understand what he means .  you get no credit for the fact that many people who sign up and , yes , there will be an additional medicare cost for them on this part d program , but the fact that they are able to take those medications , they can finally afford to take that statin to lower their cholesterol and that medication , that insulin to lower their blood sugar or whatever antihypertensive to lower their blood pressure , guess what , the truth of the matter is , and what the gentleman was emphasizing , is that you get no credit for saving those costs , not to mention the fact that it is so much more compassionate to spend money on prevention rather than treatment , particularly when the treatment sometimes is not very successful and a person could ultimately be in a nursing home for years and disabled for the rest of their lives .  i will take it a step further before turning it back over to my colleague .  it is the same thing , this scoring issue , in regard to the tax cuts that this republican leadership has effected over these past 3 years .  the scorers , the cbo , the number crunchers say , well , these tax cuts , the elimination of the marriage tax penalty , increasing the child tax credit from $ 600 an infant to $ 1 , 000 a child , giving small business men and women an opportunity to more rapidly depreciate investment in bricks and mortar and creating new jobs , all of these things , elimination of the death tax , no taxation without respiration i firmly believe in , the scorers said that was going to cost us $ 1.3 trillion .  my colleague remembers that .  and a lot of people said , oh , we can not afford that .  what are we doing cutting taxes ?  well , after about a year and a half , when we looked at our revenue stream , what was the result ?  we had about 225 billion more dollars , which on the scoring side we get no credit for .  so the gentleman is so right .  so many of these things that we are talking about tonight in this hour , these innovations , these community health centers that the president has funded , recommended , and feels so strongly about , on the scoring side you get no credit for ; but we do save money , as the gentleman points out .  and just think , also , it is the compassionate , conservative thing to do for the american people .  mr. chairman , i rise in strong support of h.r. 554 , the personal responsibility in food consumption act , and i thank the gentleman from wisconsin for moving this legislation to the floor .  this legislation will help prevent frivolous lawsuits that allege that the consumption of lawful food products caused injuries resulting from obesity or weight gain .  the food service industry employs some 11.7 million people , making it the nation 's largest employer outside of the government .  however , this vital industry has recently come under attack by waves of lawsuits arguing that it should be liable for the misuse or `` over-consumption '' of its legal food products by others .  it is common sense that individuals should take responsibility for their own dietary and eating habits .  unfortunately , trial lawyers have ulterior motives for these lawsuits .  they have made their intentions quite clear , calling the fast food industry the next tobacco .  they estimate potential profits of $ 40 billion from obesity-related lawsuits .  it is crucial that something be done to guard against these aggressive attacks .  these ill-conceived lawsuits require businesses to devote hard-earned dollars to litigate unmerited claims .  in order to help ensure that america continues to be a good place to do business , and to help create and maintain american jobs , it is important that we not allow opportunistic trial lawyers to extort money from legitimate companies .  this bill also protects our nation 's farmers and ranchers from the potentially far-reaching effects of these lawsuits .  american agriculture produces the safest , most affordable and abundant food supply in the world and should be protected from trial lawyers ' attempts to reach as far up the food chain as possible with unfounded claims seeking unjust enrichment .  while preventing frivolous claims , this legislation would protect legitimate lawsuits .  it would allow claims to go forward in several circumstances , including cases in which a state or federal law was broken .  other types of food-related lawsuits not dealing with obesity would also be protected .  the american public understands the importance of this effort .  according to a recent gallup poll , almost 90 percent of americans oppose holding restaurant owners responsible for the diet-related health problems of regular fast food consumers .  h.r. 554 is a common sense bill that will protect legitimate businesses from frivolous lawsuits , and i urge my colleagues to support this important legislation .  mr. chairman , i rise today in support of h.r. 554 , the personal responsibility in food consumption act .  you may have heard about the overweight maintenance worker from new york , who sued mcdonald 's , wendy 's , burger king , and kfc for causing his two heart attacks and diabetes .  or the class-action lawsuit against mcdonald 's where the lawyers named children as the defendants .  these stories may sound funny , but the facts show these types of frivolous lawsuits bankrupt businesses , deplete pensions , gouge consumers and deprive americans with real complaints access to their day in court .  american consumers actually pay $ 1 , 200 more for goods and services every year because of lawsuit abuse .  studies also found that the cost of litigation accounts for one-third of the price of an 8-foot aluminum ladder , it doubles the price of a football helmet , it adds $ 500 to the sticker price of a new car , and increases the cost of a pacemaker by $ 3 , 000 .  we all end up paying a huge price for lawsuit abuse .  but perhaps the most potentially disastrous effect of frivolous lawsuits is the cost of american jobs .  american businesses are a consistent target of frivolous claims , which bleed the essential capital they need to create jobs .  and with such a lawsuit happy nation , many companies simply choose to pack up shop and move overseas .  at what point will we say enough is enough ?  at what point will we start supporting personal responsibility and stop supporting personal injury lawyers ?  options on a menu do not lead to obesity , but unhealthy habits do .  at what point are we going to stop the frivolous lawsuits from personal injury trial lawyers that are simply trying to make an easy buck off of overweight americans ?  mr. chairman , i urge all my colleagues to pass h.r. 554 .  let 's take a stand for personal responsibility and freedom .  let 's stamp out frivolous lawsuits .  let 's preserve the integrity of our judicial system , and let 's stop personal injury trial lawyers from ripping off american consumers .  mr. speaker , i thank the gentleman for yielding me this time , and i want to applaud him for maintaining a size 36 over the years ; and i will decline to share my dress size with the nation .  mr. speaker , i rise to support the rule and the underlying bill , h.r. 554 , also known as the personal responsibility in food consumption act , and sometimes fondly referred to , as the gentlewoman from california ( ms. matsui )  said , the cheeseburger bill .  mr. speaker , our nation is a nation of freedom .  liberty , individuality , and personal choice are all critical ingredients .  a recipe for self-reliance , individual responsibility , and choice has been handed down from generation to generation .  that is why it is so distasteful to see a handful of greedy people trying to strike it rich by attacking the american food industry .  the blame-obsessed legal system has increasingly tried to poison the restaurant business with frivolous lawsuits .  our food industry actually employs about 12 million people .  it is the nation 's largest single private sector provider .  it provides a legal product , and it provides it in a legal way .  and now , because of the avarice of a few , it has become a huge target with a huge bull's-eye on its back .  mr. speaker , most restaurants are small businesses that contribute to their community in literally countless ways .  what is more , many of them are too small to defend themselves against out-of-control , deep-pocketed trial attorneys who want to file lawsuits against them , who see them as just another target , perhaps see them as just another atm machine .  i am proud to support this rule and proud to support h.r. 554 , which prohibits profiteering from groundless claims about weight gain , to protect our vital food and restaurant industry , to help defend our economy and american jobs , and to support the fundamental tenets of our nation : personal choice , liberty , and freedom .  mr. speaker , i am obviously a pretty good customer of the restaurant industry , but i also recognize that with democracy comes responsibility , the responsibility of citizens to make the right decisions for themselves and the responsibility of a government to stop those who seek to hurt fine american businesses for a drive-thru , fast windfall .  i urge my colleagues to support this rule and the underlying bill .  mr. chairman , i thank the chairman for yielding me this time .  mr. chairman , opponents of this legislation have said we do not need this bill .  they said , we need a debate on health care , and i am pleased to engage in that debate .  i am reminded of the book that talks about everything i need to know in life i learned in kindergarten .  i have learned a few things here .  lawsuits do not lower obesity rates .  lawsuits do not improve the nutrition habits of children .  lawsuits do not reduce the $ 127 million annual medical costs that our nation incurs on obesity-related conditions in children and the increase in obesity rates .  mr. chairman , parents need to teach their children at early ages to eat healthy meals and to establish exercise routines for their families .  school districts need to make sure they have gym classes and serve the right kinds of food as an option .  proper diet and exercise will help reduce medical complications that are increasingly common in children , such as hypertension , diabetes , high cholesterol , and heart disease which were once found almost exclusively in adults .  in my years working as a psychologist and oftentimes consulting with courts , i have yet to find a court that can replace a parent .  when will we learn we can not litigate compassion , we can not mandate common sense , and we certainly can not legislate personal responsibility .  h.r. 554 will do more than restrict lawsuits against food and manufacturers for weight-related cases .  it forces us to take personal responsibility for ourselves and our families and put a priority on establishing healthy lifestyles .  here are the facts .  if you touch a flame , you are going to get burned .  if you eat a lot and do not exercise , you are going to gain weight .  we need to take personal responsibility for that .  the bill before us directly protects individual freedoms of all americans from a tiny minority who try to exploit the legal system for personal gain .  i strongly support h.r. 554 , and i commend the chairman for his work .  mr. speaker , i am joined by my colleagues this evening to talk about children 's health month .  it is very important for all families in our nation , and certainly an issue that concerns all of us on both sides of the aisle .  while the rhetoric of the house often echoes through these walls about cuts and people being harmed , it seems to me that is the only part of the discussion that we are taking away .  little offers are made in terms of what is needed .  what we do often hear is discussions of who is paying .  should individuals pay , insurance companies be taxed more , businesses be given tax cuts , perhaps health savings accounts , association health plans , or just have the federal government take over ?  but this should not just be an issue of who is paying , for although that is important , and how much we are paying is important , really much of this comes down to what we need to have is an open discussion of what we are paying for .  according to the national center of health statistics , 83 percent of children in this country under 18 years of age have excellent to very good health .  that is good news .  now 17 percent of america 's children are in less than favorable health , either to mild or severe levels .  we have to make sure we do all we can to help these children have a better health future and help the rest remain healthy .  according to the american academy of pediatrics , 6.3 million uninsured children , over two-thirds of all uninsured children in america , are currently eligible either for medicaid or for the state health insurance programs , but they are not enrolled .  there are many opportunities .  i know the state of pennsylvania , where i represent the 18th congressional district , really has very good services and insurance for children of a low income level but we need to make sure that we expand enrollment and get those kids beyond .  for those who are uninsured or underinsured but beyond the level of medicaid , there are several things that we should be looking at to make sure that they get the health care they need to maintain their health to prevent higher expenses for emergency care .  but what this means is not just more discussions on we are cutting money out of medicaid or other aspects .  look at what has happened to the growth of medicaid .  in 1995 , and this is for all ages , medicaid spent $ 150 billion .  we are now up to $ 300 billion .  about half of americans are covered by some level of federal insurance or health care .  but the system is growing , and the concern is it is growing out of control .  while we are looking at such things as how do we pay for hurricane katrina 's outcome in this devastated gulf region , how do we take care of so many needs , is it fair to just continue to say to the american people we are going to continue to spend more without finding ways of eliminating waste and fraud and abuse ?  let me give an example .  the new york times wrote recently about an amount of some $ 4.4 billion in medicaid fraud in that state .  one dentist billed for over 980 procedures in one day .  clearly these were patients that were actually being seen .  another company used van rides for supposedly disabled people , billing those rides to the government .  but these people when followed by a reporter clearly were not disabled .  they walked around just fine .  there is example after example after example .  i believe the american taxpayer wants to make sure that this waste , this fraud , this abuse is removed from the health care system .  but it is not just a matter of that .  when it comes to our children , we also have to make sure the system works with these programs in ways that optimize the health and outcome .  one of the things that i want to talk about today , along with the gentleman from georgia ( mr. gingrey )  , is transforming our health care system .  we oftentimes use a tongue-in-cheek quote around here that says one of the definitions of insanity is doing the same thing over and over again and expecting different results .  indeed , in the health care system where so much money is used inappropriately and wastefully , we ought to have some changes .  from the center of health transformation , they say we have this current health care system and we are trying to come up with some reforms within the network .  we try things like so much money is going to pay for diagnoses .  we ask for some procedures to be done inpatient and outpatient , all within that system .  what happens is if this system does not change , it will lead to some decay .  the system can not continue to go the way it is .  anyone who owns a small business or a household can not continue to operate the way our health care system operates .  when we go into hospitals , inpatient/outpatient , you will see the latest equipment , the greatest skilled personnel , mris , pt scans , ct scans , but very often we also see that data is kept on patients on pieces of paper .  we have 21st century health technology kept on 16th century monitors .  what happens , people slip through the cracks .  the wrong prescriptions are ordered .  tests that are done have to be repeated because someone can not get them .  i was talking to one of our colleagues today and he was telling me how a sonogram was done of his wife who is pregnant , but he can not get it from here back home to his wife because he has to carry it manually .  it can not be e-mailed .  we take e-mails for granted , but doctors have to wait for papers to transfer locations .  what happens ?  can we come up with some real changes to really help our children ?  yes , if we switch to an intelligent health system that uses electronic prescribing , electronic medical records , real patient care management for our children rather than having a system that gets bogged down and collapses of its own expense and weight , we can come up with success for our children and no longer be mired in failure .  let me describe a little bit about what we mean by managing the whole patient .  a lot of what people think happens when they have an individual or chronic disease is something common , like diabetes or asthma in a child , the doctor will examine and make sure that the child has the right medications , watches their diet and the environment around them , and hope all goes well .  as long as the parents are monitoring that carefully and there is communication between doctor , nurse , patient and child , you can have a pretty good system .  what happens if the information does not get to the parents , the patient education is not quite there ?  maybe they skip a prescription , maybe they did not pick it up on time , maybe they do not fully understand all the elements of diet and medications for complicated diseases .  what does that mean ?  you can end up with chronic about 10 percent of the cases that show up in an emergency room are someone who has no ability to pay , but it is estimated that 60 percent or more , 60 percent or more of patients who show up in emergency departments are nonemergencies .  if in such cases the care was given ahead of time , whether it is through a community health center , a clinic , direct patient care with a physician , if we monitored and kept a careful eye on those children with chronic conditions , we could save massive amounts of money .  this is not cutting care , it is improving care .  emergency care can cost five to eight times more than outpatient care , and we can actually save billions of dollars in the system .  this is where we can find savings , and in so doing we save lives as well as money .  but this means we use a chronic care model and not the inefficient going to a doctor , another disease , go to another doctor .  what this involves is not just the health system , it really involves the community , the resources .  what takes place , the support systems , the families , the individuals helping to make sure they are watching their children , they are educated and they know what to do .  it is making sure we have a delivery system involved with making sure doctors are notified if someone does not pick up their prescriptions .  a lot of this can be done with electronic prescribing notification .  it is making sure that clinical information systems are there so that if x-rays are done , procedures and tests are done , that information is communicated back to the doctor .  one study i looked at said something like 14 percent of the charts reviewed the physician found that they were missing some important data .  perhaps the physician referred the patient on to have some testing done , and it was never done .  in the majority of these cases , the doctor said it would affect what diagnosis they had and future tests called for .  this is not a matter of just saying we are going to cut care , this is improving care .  but this also means that clinical information systems must be there .  they are a critical component of health care , of having the physician and nurse and family work together .  what does that do ?  it is a matter of having productive interaction between everybody involved .  you have an informed , active patient and you have a prepared , proactive practice team .  no longer the passive system , the doctor says here is your diagnosis , here is your prescription , good luck , call me if there is a problem .  if that prescription is not filled , there is a call from the doctor .  it is a system of interaction between the patient and doctor to make sure they are going back and forth .  mr. speaker , i am not talking about things that take place only in families that have access to computers and finances to do this .  a lot of this is done in areas of low income levels , of high risk populations where we really find it is much more affordable .  what we need to be looking at here as congress is when we are reviewing such things as the medicaid system , it is not just saying we are going to lop off $ 8 billion or $ 10 billion and see what happens .  it is a matter of doing more effective work .  much like a household that says our spending is going out of control , they do not just say let us not spend any more .  every small business and family does this .  they look at what they are spending , but you have to change some of your habits and make habits more effective .  the system that seems to be adapting the slowest is our health care system , perhaps because we just keep doing the same thing over and over again and expecting different results .  what the federal government is going to do and what we are doing here in the republican conference is asking those questions and demanding some answers of changing some of that system .  what i would like to do is call upon the gentleman from georgia ( mr. gingrey )  , who as an obstetrician has worked with many families , particularly in the area of prenatal care .  one of the critical areas in cutting costs and being more effective in health care is dealing with prenatal care in an effective and positive way .  mr. speaker , reclaiming my time , i thank the gentleman for his learned information for our colleagues to be aware of not only head start but about prenatal care .  one program i want to mention , the national nurse-family partnership , is a great example of success .  it is a public-private nonprofit center .  i believe it is centered in colorado , with over 700 nurses delivering in-home prenatal care and early infant care to more than 13 , 000 low-income families throughout the nation .  interestingly enough , they were able to demonstrate they could return $ 4 savings for every $ 1 invested in these services by the time the children reach age 15 by reducing expenditures for such things as special education , emergency room visits .  again , when we use a more comprehensive patient care model , we look at the whole family and not just the individual disease , we can save money and provide care .  secondly , i also applaud my colleague for bringing up those aspects about head start and early head start , so critically important for families who are struggling to make ends meet to have this system that really puts the parent at the center of the child 's care , making sure they are involved in all the decisions , making sure they have the information they need to have , making sure that they are , in essence , put into the role of parent and not government in the role of parent ; and that makes all the difference in the world .  let me shift into another area here , however , that is also critically important and something we dealt with today .  at any point if my colleague has comments he wants to make , i certainly would encourage him to do so .  but this is the area of childhood obesity .  today , we passed a bill out of the house that said that we can not just be blaming restaurants and fast-food companies and food manufacturers when someone has obesity problems .  indeed , it is something we all have to work on and have responsibility for because whether they are healthy snacks that a person eats too much of or unhealthy snacks , whatever that is , we have to make sure that we watch our diet and have proper exercise .  unfortunately , what has happened in this nation , i believe it may only be the state of illinois that still requires gym class in school , and as such , children spend much more sedentary time at home , playing video games or in front of the television , less active , and eating more during that time .  this is a major contributor to childhood obesity .  and what has happened in the last 10 years , and look here , the proportion of obese children has tripled since 1970 .  it has doubled in the last 10 years , tripled among teenagers actually during this time period , and increased incidences of disease associated with that , including such things as now we see adult onset diabetes showing up in our children .  we also see heart problems showing up .  we see the risks that take place with blood pressures that are showing up in children who really did not have these problems before .  this is an estimated annual cost of obesity-related diseases in the united states : $ 100 billion .  $ 100 billion annual cost of obesity-related diseases .  this is not something that is cured by simply having government come in and tell people what they can and can not eat .  something has broken down in our families and our communities where we are no longer telling kids they have had enough to eat or they are not going to eat any more of that or they need to get out and play .  the annual hospital costs for obesity-related disorders in children ages 6 to 17 years of age increased from $ 35 million to $ 127 million between 1979 and 2000 .  it is a lack of physical exercise ; 38.6 percent of united states adults report they have no leisure-time physical activity at all .  the annual estimated cost for diseases associated with this physical activity in 2000 was $ 76 million , but we know that daily participation in physical ed classes by high school students has dropped from 42 percent in 1991 to 29 percent in 1999 and continues to decline .  even though we have data that continues to tell us physical exercise is critical and important , not just for a child 's physical health , but really , as we are looking at ways of managing this , we can not continue to just pump money into the medicaid system and into our insurance systems to cover the costs of the outcome at the end of the line .  we need to go upstream and work on some basic prevention , and that means , quite frankly , mothers and fathers across america have to work on these issues of teaching their children to be responsible for their own bodies , making sure that we , as members of congress , are talking about these issues , but making sure as we monitor how money is spent we are much better off looking at ways that funding could be given to communities , programs , to schools , to hospitals to help make sure we are working on prevention of obesity rather than paying the high costs at the end of the line for so much of the increases in health care because obesity has continued to climb .  now , with obesity often comes behavioral disorders as a matter of fact .  many a child i saw in my clinical practice as a psychologist oftentimes came in a child who was well overweight , teased by their peers , struggled with this on top of their other physical problems .  they oftentimes got in this downward spiral , less activity , more socially isolated .  perhaps they were teased by other kids , the butt of jokes , a sad condition , and many of these children also suffered problems with mental health .  what happens in the area of mental health is sometimes in this chamber and our nation , we look down upon it from a couple of different angles .  we see perhaps mental health problems are some sign of softness , that perhaps people should be a little tougher , take it on the chin , not be so sensitive .  sometimes i am not sure we have advanced from the days of the salem witch trials , and blame those who suffer from mental illness and say somehow you should have done more .  sometimes we ridicule those who are on medication .  jokes still abound on television calling people crazy , loony , out of control , retarded , in derogatory terms , for something that we continue to see in this nation as a sign of weakness instead of a real disease .  again , if we are going to deal with things in the health care area , to truly reduce costs and deal with patients , we have to understand in the area of children 's mental health psychological disorders are real .  they are not made up .  they are not indications where someone is weaker and ineffective .  there is a very strong and consistent scientific basis to say that the myth of psychological disorders and psychiatric disorders has to be debunked .  kids do have real problems .  adolescents have more problems .  adults have even more problems , and all these grow when we do not deal with these problems at an early level .  there are biological and environmental causes .  it is interesting , you can have some children face tremendous difficulties in their life and they do not seem to show problems in mental outcomes , but that does not mean that those who do have problems are simply weak .  just like some of us may be exposed to the flu , some of us may eat different , and be around those who smoke and never develop any symptoms at all , where others are susceptible to them as part of their own biological genetic makeup .  again , it does not mean they are weak or ineffective .  it means a combination of the biological and environmental factors that caused this .  you can not simply say if we take care of these environmental causes it will never occur .  sometimes people say , well , maybe it is poverty that causes some of these difficulties with mental illness , and that is not the case at all .  depression , bipolar disorders , attention disorders , anxiety disorders occur at all lines of children .  boys sometimes have more than others , but there is this link between biological and environmental causes .  boys have more problems , for example , with attention disorders .  girls may have different symptoms with depression , but in all cases we also see there is a commonality between parents and we may see , for example , as the outcome of the hurricanes in the gulf coast that there will be some children who live through tremendous trauma , and they may have some post-traumatic stress reactions , but it may never reach the level of post-traumatic stress disorder .  it becomes a longer term debilitating factor , exhibited , for example , as such things as depression , trouble concentrating , nightmares , et cetera .  it may never reach that level because they may in their own biological factors have resilience , but their family may be there to support .  the other things here is to understand that psychological disorders do respond to treatment .  this may be pharmaceutical ; that is , medication , and it certainly is also matters of counseling and therapy .  this is not just a matter of talking to someone , giving common-sense ideas .  this is a matter of very strategic , scientifically based things such as cognitive behavioral therapy to work with patients .  we know , for example , that children with depression respond fairly well , pretty well , to some of the talk therapy or counseling to help them understand strategies to deal with problems in their life , recognize the symptoms and do their own intervention themselves to change those symptoms .  but we also know when people move from moderate to more severe levels of depression , medication , it is pretty darn helpful and sometimes almost necessary for them to have that .  it does not help when we have movie stars out there saying there is no such thing as mental illness , an irresponsible statement .  it does not make things go away just because you wish it to be so .  i do not want situations put upon our country where we see that , again , people from hollywood are saying , well , there is no such thing as mental illness , and therefore , we do not treat it .  that is wrong .  we do know that they can respond to treatment , and it is important we continue to fund in areas of medicaid and everywhere else , medicare , psychological , psychiatric treatment because it is helpful .  we also need to , however , carefully evaluate the treatment , the planning and follow-up assessment of these .  i will give you a couple of examples .  last year , there was a lot of discussion about some anti-depressant medication , and when some children took it , there was a higher risk for suicidal thinking , suicidal ideations we call it .  what did not come up in those discussions are a couple of important factors .  one , 75 percent of psychiatric medications are prescribed by nonpsychiatrists .  they may be highly qualified physicians .  in many cases , they may be general practitioners , pediatricians , family doctors , obstetricians .  seventy-five percent , however , and they may or may not be doing the other follow-up that is necessary .  what anti-depressant medications do is they can change a person 's mood .  they can help change the chemical , biological reaction that a person 's central nervous system and brain of how they process stresses that can lead to the debilitation of depression , but it does not change the way a person thinks .  that is why it is so important that we make sure we are funding programs that also provide the psychological therapy for children to help them understand what these thoughts are , to help them change the way they are thinking about the world so as they start to feel better they do not have more suicidal risks .  interestingly enough , one of the things we oftentimes taught medical students in medical schools is once patients start getting better with symptoms of depression , the risk for suicide may increase because the support systems back off and they say johnny 's feeling better , we do not need to have him in the hospital or do not need to be around him as much .  perhaps people are no longer monitoring the person 24 hours a day .  they start to go back to school , face more stresses .  as they are getting their energy up , as they are back in the world and thinking if we do not change the way they think with depressive thought patterns , if we do not interrupt that and change it , you can actually increase the risk for suicide .  that being the case , we have to make sure that as we are looking for more effective ways of spending money , the taxpayer dollars in medicaid and medicare and head start that we are working comprehensive care with the patient , with mental illness as well , such problems as i said before about bipolar ; that is , manic depressive illness , attention deficit disorder , anxiety disorders , all of these with a strong genetic component and elements where we can make huge changes in people 's lives .  it is something that we need to make sure we are no longer just criticizing about overprescribing or perhaps saying that too many kids are getting stimulant medication with attention disorder ; we should or should not do this .  here is the crux of this .  it really is a matter of having accurate diagnosis and treatment and making sure that we are not overmedicating or undermedicating our children .  somehow in this chamber we politicize this to somehow think we are doing something wrong in both areas of the conservative far right , the liberal far left , somehow accuse maybe there is some conspiracies involved in this , and there is not .  it is a matter of making sure the physicians have the training to deal with this .  they are interacting a comprehensive care model , a patient care model , disease management model , together with people of various professions and working closely with the families .  we see this in the area of children 's health when you start to look at so many aspects here that you really can make some huge differences .  i would like to point to a couple of things here and then call upon the gentleman from georgia ( mr. gingrey )  , my colleague , on a couple of questions .  but one of the things to keep in mind about depression , which is one of the most common mental illnesses affecting more than 19 million americans each year , that it can cause longer lasting forms .  you can lose pleasure in life , complicate other medical conditions , can lead to suicide , but it is also associated with many other medical issues .  for example , cancer has a higher incidence of depression , stroke .  diabetes , people with diabetes have a 25 percent chance of having depression .  that is higher than the rest of the population .  depression also affects as many as 70 percent of patients with chronic diabetic complications .  people with heart disease , 40 to 65 percent of them will have depression , and what is interesting is untreated depression in these patients can lead to complications , such as the health care costs can double .  now , i ask the gentleman from georgia ( mr. gingrey )  on this , he certainly treated many a patient who had medical complications as well as some of the psychological ones , and i would like to ask him , in looking at some of these more comprehensive chronic care models , of how we need to be moving forward in a modern system of health care and not be just looking at individual disease , but how looking at more advanced forms of bringing technology and changing the system , how he sees that affecting the patient in a cost-effective way .  i thank the gentleman .  i asked about another issue , too , which is one that is so critically important for children .  my colleague from georgia had mentioned before , during pregnancy , smoking being one of the risk factors .  i believe that the sad statistic is that the pittsburgh region has some of the highest maternal smoking rates during pregnancy in the nation .  my understanding is a lot of complications can come when you have a mother who smokes during pregnancy .  certainly an important part of prenatal care for our children is understanding the importance of helping a mother to stop smoking during that time .  i wonder if the gentleman can comment on some of the complications that might come for that mother and that baby not only during labor and delivery but the long-term effects for that child when the mother smokes during pregnancy .  also , it is related to , my understanding is yet so many other aspects come from this that you may find in such children also eating disorders and diabetes and cancer risks even if that child never themselves smoked cigarettes .  but the risks are huge .  i believe a direct and indirect medical cost of smoking in this nation is about $ 138 billion per year .  of course , another reason why i believe it is so important not only for the government but really for individuals and businesses to focus so much on helping to change that is the state of california , for example , estimates that their statewide tobacco prevention program during the 1990s resulted in overall cost savings of $ 8.4 billion in health care .  that is pretty remarkable .  again , unfortunately , the way the congress scores things with the congressional budget office , when we talk about starting programs that would actually save money , my colleagues are aware of this , we never can get an accurate measure of what it actually saved because of the way the cbo , the congressional budget office , scores things .  it is not how much you save , but how much you spend .  so if we would do similar things that would lead to a smoking cessation during pregnancy , and it might cost x number of dollars , the cbo would score that but never tell us how much money it would save over time .  that is something that frustrates all of us because the things we are talking here tonight really require some expenditures to get these savings .  businesses are picking up on this .  a recent review of health promotion and disease and management programs in businesses that provided health education to their employees , including exercise , health-risk screening , weight control , nutrition information , stress management , disease screening , and smoking cessation , found a significant return in investment , saved about $ 1.50 to about $ 5 for every dollar spent in the program .  for example , motorola , their wellness program saved the company about $ 4 for every dollar invested .  northeast utilities ' program in its first 24 months reduced some of the claims by about $ 1.4 billion .  caterpillar company , they had a program that saved about $ 700 million .  johnson and johnson 's health and wellness program saved about a couple hundred dollars per employee per year .  what is interesting here is how much we can save and what we have to look at here .  and i call upon my colleagues , we need to make some fundamental changes in how cbo scores these things .  we have got to stop just looking at how much it costs up front and look at how much it saves in the long run .  again , i look at such things as if we are able to have more people go to federally approved health centers , community health centers in their community instead of showing up in the emergency departments , yes , it may cost money ; the president called for a couple billion dollars to put into those community health centers .  but if it is one-fifth of the cost of going there rather than the cost of going to the emergency departments , that is a massive cost savings .  certainly i call upon my colleague , too , it is one of those things you have seen as well , how do we get these prevention issues begin to be scored .  it is of fundamental importance to health care .  i am reminded of the story of the fellow who was on his hands and knees late at night under a streetlight in the city , probably had too much to drink , and a police officer sees him and says : excuse me , sir , what are you doing ?  the gentleman says : i am looking for my car keys .  and the police officer says to him : well , where did you lose them ?  he said : i lost them down at the end of that dark ally down there .  and the policeman says : well , why are you not looking for your keys at the end of that dark ally over there ?  and the gentleman says : because there is more light over here .  sometimes i think the way we look at these medical issues , instead of looking at the cost savings involved with prevention , we simply are able to look at how much it costs us up front because it is easier to find that data .  it is tougher to pay attention to prevention .  my colleague brought up some great points .  prenatal care , early head start , head start , what that contributes to in helping save problems .  we talked about community health centers and spending money .  i like the president 's plan of a community health center in every county in america where there is poverty and an uninsured , can help reduce emergency visits by four-fifths , the cost of the emergency visits .  it is an incredible amount of savings , but not one that we can get those scores for .  and it is one of those things where , unfortunately , the political rhetoric comes through in this chamber , and i do not know of anybody who has ever been cured by a floor speech , but it certainly is one where there is just so much talk that continues on , spending too much here , spending too much there .  we need to pay attention to spending too much .  the problem is not what we are spending , but what we are spending it on .  and if we are continuing to spend on wasteful or fraudulent or abusive or simply health care issues that are not taking care of the disparity of outcomes between , for example , low socioeconomic families , families that are struggling to make ends meet and feel they do not have the money to pay for their doctor visits , and those that may be in poverty , we need to work on those disparities of outcomes and make sure that we take care of those children early on ; and that is why the issue of community health centers for our kids is so critically important .  but , again , some will say we are spending too much , causing the budget to go up , and we can not get the proper numbers .  now , some of the public that may be listening is wondering why we are even talking about the cbo .  but that is , unfortunately , the way this chamber operates now and that people oftentimes look at those numbers .  we have seen tremendous inaccuracies in those numbers .  my colleague from georgia spoke about those inaccuracies when it came to looking at things such as the death tax and them being off over $ 1 trillion in their estimates .  but also it is one of those things in health care , too .  think about this : if you take a medication that costs you $ 50 , but it may prevent you from having a heart attack and further hospitalizations , surgery , disability , workers comp , losing your job , having the family require other care , that is a massive amount of cost savings .  but , instead , we may focus on only that aspect of the cost of that medication , instead of all the other costs that are saved there .  when we look at what we are doing with children 's health , it is so critically important that we look at the big picture here as well .  now , i am going to see if my colleague has any final comments to make in this area of health care .  barring that , i just want to mention a couple of final comments here .  we are certainly the stewards of the people 's money , and although we are not here to take the place of the family , we are here to do sometimes what abe lincoln said .  president lincoln said , `` governments should do that which the people can not do for themselves. '' now , in the areas of such things as food and consumption , people and parents ought to be watching what they eat .  well , what we also ought to be doing ourselves is working along with physicians and schoolteachers and people in the community to make sure our kids are healthy and safe and exercise and eat right .  but we also have to make sure we are working at comprehensive care , real patient care models , that involves nutrition and exercise and prevention and mental health , and integrated care of all of those things together .  if we are truly going to do what is right and decent and honorable for the next generation , it is a matter of doing what is right in health care .  it is a matter of pooling our resources together and looking at the answers , to be science-based and not emotion-based on this .  the science tells us we have things we can do , but we are not yet doing .  the science tells us when it comes to managing the disease it is not appropriate to just look at that individual disease , but to see how it operates in the context of the child and their family .  this is true compassion .  this is where we will save lives .  this is where we will save money .  this is where if we do things like looking at electronic medical records , and make sure that every hospital around the nation has this , and providers and pharmacists have these , you can find out these things and work on them together .  that is what takes place in states like nebraska and other hospitals around the nation .  we have here an opportunity to make a huge difference , to save lives by the hundreds of thousands , and to save money by the hundreds of billions of dollars .  we have that opportunity before us .  the question is , will we have the courage to work together in a bipartisan manner to do it ?  my hope is that our colleagues drop the gloves on this , put down the swords , stop looking for opportunities to send out sound bytes and to have people make phone calls and use it as political fodder , but instead to be able to look our constituents in the eye and say when we were all here , when we were all granted the authority to do something about america , we took an opportunity to save lives and save money , and we ought to start with our children .  i thank my colleagues .  mr. chairman , congress is once again using abusive litigation at the state level as a justification nationalizing tort law .  in this case , the personal responsibility in food consumption act ( h.r. 554 ) usurps state jurisdiction over lawsuits related to obesity against food manufacturers .  of course , i share the outrage at the obesity lawsuits .  the idea that a fast food restaurant should be held legally liable because some of its customers over indulged in the restaurant 's products , and thus are suffering from obesity-related health problems , is the latest blow to the ethos of personal responsibility that is fundamental in a free society .  after all , mcdonalds does not force anyone to eat at its restaurants .  whether to make big macs or salads the staple of one 's diet is totally up to the individual .  furthermore , it is common knowledge that a diet centering on super-sized cheeseburgers , french fries , and sugar-filled colas is not healthy .  therefore , there is no rational basis for these suits .  some proponents of lawsuits claim that the fast food industry congress bears some responsibility for the decline of personal responsibility that led to the obesity lawsuits .  after all , congress created the welfare state that popularized the notion that people should not bear the costs of their mistakes .  thanks to the welfare state , too many americans believe they are entitled to pass the costs of their mistakes on to a third party -- such as the taxpayers or a corporation with `` deep pockets. '' while i oppose the idea of holding food manufacturers responsible for their customers ' misuse of their products , i can not support addressing this problem by nationalizing tort law .  it is long past time for congress to recognize that not every problem requires a federal solution .  this country 's founders recognized the genius of separating power among federal , state , and local governments as a means to maximize individual liberty and make government most responsive to those persons who might most responsibly influence it .  this separation of powers strictly limits the role of the federal government in dealing with civil liability matters ; and reserves jurisdiction over matters of civil tort , such as food related negligence suits , to the state legislatures .  finally , mr. chairman , i would remind the food industry that using unconstitutional federal powers to restrict state lawsuits makes it more likely those same powers will be used to impose additional federal control over the food industry .  despite these lawsuits , the number one threat to business remains a federal government freed of its constitutional restraints .  after all , the federal government imposes numerous taxes and regulations on the food industry , often using the same phony `` pro-consumer '' justifications used by the trial lawyers .  furthermore , while small business , such as fast-food franchises , can move to another state to escape flawed state tax , regulatory , or legal policies , they can not as easily escape destructive federal regulations .  unconstitutional expansions of federal power , no matter how just the cause may seem , are not in the interests of the food industry or of lovers of liberty .  in conclusion , while share the concern over the lawsuits against the food industry that inspired h.r. 554 , this bill continues the disturbing trend of federalizing tort law .  enhancing the power of the federal government is in no way in the long-term interests of defenders of the free market and constitutional liberties .  therefore , i must oppose this bill .  madam chairman , i yield myself such time as i may consume .  madam chairman , i rise in support of h.r. 554 , the personal responsibility in food consumption act of 2005 .  the food service industry employs some 12 million people , making it the nation 's largest private sector employer .  this vital sector of our economy has recently come under attack by lawsuits alleging it should pay monetary damages based upon legal theories holding it liable for the overconsumption of its products .  h.r. 554 , the personal responsibility in food consumption act , would correct this disturbing trend .  introduced by the gentleman from florida ( mr. keller )  , this legislation would generally prohibit frivolous obesity- or weight gain-related claims against the food industry .  it would , however , allow obesity-related claims to go forward in several circumstances , including cases in which a state or federal law was broken and as a result a person suffered harm .  under h.r. 554 , cases could go forward in which a company violates an expressed contract or warranty .  also , because h.r. 554 applies only to claims based on weight gain or obesity , lawsuits could still proceed if , for example , someone gets sick from consuming tainted food .  this legislation passed the house of representatives during the 108th congress in the form of h.r. 339 with a large bipartisan vote of 276 to 139 .  according to a recent gallup poll , `` nearly nine in 10 americans oppose holding the fast-food industry legally responsible for diet-related health problems of people who eat that kind of food on a regular basis ... ..  those who describe themselves as overweight are no more likely than others to blame the fast-food industry for obesity-related health problems or to favor lawsuits against the industry. '' as one judge put it : `` if a person knows or should know that eating copious orders of supersized mcdonald 's products is unhealthy and may result in weight gain , it is not the place of the law to protect them from their own excesses. '' even the los angeles times has editorialized against such lawsuits , stating : `` if kids are chowing down to excess on junk food , are n't their parents responsible for cracking down ?  and if parents or other grown-ups overindulge , is n't it their fault , not that of the purveyors of fast food ?  ... ..  why boost their food bills just because of legal jousting ?  people should n't get stuffed , but this line of litigation should. '' the threat posed to our national economy is clear .  personal injury attorney and obesity lawsuit litigator john banzhaf said recently , `` you may not like it ... ..  but we 'll find a judge .  and then we 'll find a jury '' that will find restaurants liable for their customers ' overeating .  according to news reports of a recent legal conference , a panel of four lawyers argued that the overweight lawsuit movement `` would need to extend beyond the obvious targets like restaurants , fast-food chains , and food manufacturers to bring about substantial policy changes ... ..  `` dr .  gerald musante , a clinical psychologist who trained at duke university medical center , has worked for more than 30 years with thousands of obese patients .  he is the founder of the structure house , a residential weight loss facility in durham , north carolina .  dr .  musante said the following at a hearing in the other body on this legislation : `` through working with obese patients , i have learned that the worst thing one can do is to blame an outside force to get themselves `off the hook , ' to say it 's not their fault and that they are a victim ... ..  congress has rightly recognized the danger of allowing americans to continue blaming others for the obesity epidemic .  it is imperative that we prevent lawsuits from being filed against any industry for answering consumer demands. '' even the chairman of the american council for fitness and nutrition , susan finn , has written that `` if you 're obese , you do n't need a lawyer ; you need to see your doctor , a nutritionist , and a physical trainer .  playing the courtroom blame game wo n't make anyone thinner or healthier ... ..  `` besides threatening to erode values of personal responsibility , the lawsuit campaign against the food industry threatens the separation of powers .  nationally coordinated lawsuits seek to accomplish through litigation what has not been achieved by legislation and the democratic process .  as one mastermind behind the lawsuits against the food industry has stated , `` if the legislatures wo n't legislate , then the trial lawyers will litigate. '' madam chairman , the personal responsibility in food consumption act will help preserve the separation of powers , support the principle of personal responsibility , and help protect the largest private sector employer in the united states .  i urge all my colleagues to support this important legislation .  madam chairman , i reserve the balance of my time .  mr. chairman , i demand a recorded vote .  mr. speaker , on that i demand the yeas and nays .  mr. chairman , i rise today in strong support of h.r. 554 , the personal responsibility in food consumption act .  as a physician , and just as someone who can read the data , i can tell you that we have an epidemic of obesity in this country .  obesity is a serious health problem , with very serious consequences .  the most important step we can take to curb obesity is to impart to everyone in this country that obesity can be controlled when we take personal responsibility .  a healthy and consistent diet , with an adequate amount of exercise , will work wonders .  that 's the simple truth .  we must get away from the notion there is anything remotely approaching a quick fix to obesity .  maintaining a healthy lifestyle requires a life-long dedication to one 's own well-being .  a lawsuit will not help anyone lose weight .  allowing consumers to sue their local restaurant , to sue half the food industry , means that we are telling our citizens , `` it 's not your fault that you are obese. '' mr. chairman , that 's the wrong tack to take .  i support this legislation because it sends the message to everyone in the united states , young and old , that taking control of your weight is your responsibility , and taking personal responsibility is the only way that weight control can be achieved .  i commend the gentleman from florida , mr. keller , and chairman sensenbrenner , for their work on this legislation , and i urge passage of the bill .  mr. speaker , i thank the gentleman from georgia ( mr. gingrey )  for yielding me time .  mr. speaker , i would only point out that this bill , with the exception of one and maybe two changes , has already been debated by this house .  i appreciate the fact that my friend from florida would be concerned about it being a closed rule , but this is certainly not the first time that we have considered this bill .  i think i have voted on it a number of times in the past .  the fact of the matter is all this bill does is the same thing the last version did that we voted on before and the one we voted on before that : it protects licensed and law abiding firearms and ammunitions manufacturers and sellers from lawsuits that seek to hold them responsible for the crimes that third-party criminals commit .  it does not hold harmless unlawful , non-law-abiding arms manufacturers and sellers ; but it simply allows for some immunity from the frivolous lawsuits that gun manufacturers have faced now for many years .  thirty-three states , including my home state of new hampshire , have passed similar legislation at the state level .  indeed , the argument is brought up that this does set a precedent of providing special protection to a segment of the industry ; and i say , you are right .  you are absolutely right about that .  and sad to say , i wish this bill was not necessary .  i wish that there were not adventurous trial lawyers that see deep pockets as a new way to line theirs .  i wish we had not reached the day that we have to protect , as we may later on this week , restaurants and public schools from frivolous lawsuits related to obesity claims ; but the fact of the matter is we need to do that .  we need to do that because there is no direct connection now between gun manufacturers and crimes that are committed with guns unless there is negligence of one sort or another .  i urge my colleagues to support this bill because it is a sad reality that legitimate industries in this country need special protection against entities that are looking to make money , to provide new sources of revenue outside of the tax base , and other ways of looking for people that can afford to settle on cases that they would never ever settle on under any other circumstance .  this bill has been debated .  this is a good bill , and i urge the congress to adopt it when it comes up on the floor .  madam speaker , by direction of the committee on rules , i call up house resolution 493 and ask for its immediate consideration .  mr. speaker , in response to the gentleman from massachusetts ( mr. mcgovern )  i want to point out that this bill prohibits lawsuits against a manufacturer or seller of a firearm or ammunition or not-for-profit trade association for damages resulting from the criminal or unlawful misuse of a firearm or ammunition .  but it provides , as i said in my opening remarks , mr. speaker , five exceptions to this liability protection , including , and i will just mention one in response to my good friend from massachusetts .  an exception would be for an action against a seller for negligent entrustment or negligence , per se , for example supplying a gun or ammunition to a person when the seller knows or reasonably should know that the buyer possesses an unacceptable risk of physical injury to himself or others .  as an example again , the d.c .  snipers were successful in court on these grounds .  reclaiming my time , i would again point out to the gentleman that it also would be an exception if a vendor knowingly did not keep an inventory so that they would have knowledge that dangerous weapons or firearms were actually stolen from their place of business .  and that also is one of the exceptions .  mr. speaker , i want to point out that this bill on the house side , h.r. 800 , which was passed , as i mentioned earlier by the house judiciary committee , this bill actually had 257 cosponsors , mr. speaker .  so this is certainly not a republican bill .  you can do the math .  my colleagues certainly can do the math on the other side of the aisle .  but clearly , this bill had strong , strong bipartisan support .  mr. speaker , pursuant to house resolution 493 , i call up the senate bill ( s. 397 ) to prohibit civil liability actions from being brought or continued against manufacturers , distributors , dealers , or importers of firearms or ammunition for damages , injunctive or other relief resulting from the misuse of their products by others , and ask for its immediate consideration .  mr. speaker , i ask unanimous consent that all members may have 5 legislative days within which to revise and extend their remarks and include extraneous material on s. 397 , the bill currently under consideration .  mr. speaker , i yield myself such time as i may consume .  mr. speaker , i rise in support of s. 397 , the protection of lawful commerce in arms act .  this legislation passed the senate by more than a two-thirds vote this summer and contains the same legal reform provisions of h.r. 800 sponsored by the gentleman from florida ( mr. stearns )  .  the committee on the judiciary considered and favorably reported h.r. 800 in may of this year .  just like h.r. 800 and similar legislation that passed the house by more than a two-thirds majority during the last congress , s. 397 will stop frivolous and abusive lawsuits against manufacturers and sellers of firearms or ammunition by prohibiting lawsuits resulting from the criminal and unlawful misuse of their products from being filed in federal and state courts .  it is important to stress at the outset what this legislation does not do .  first , the legislation does not preclude lawsuits against a person who transfers a firearm or ammunition knowing it will be used to commit a crime of violence or drug-trafficking crime .  second , it does not prevent lawsuits against a seller for negligent entrustment or negligence per se .  third , the bill includes several additional exceptions , including an exception for actions in which a manufacturer or seller of a qualified product knowingly violates any state or federal statute applicable to sales or marketing when such violation was the proximate cause of the harm for which relief is sought .  finally , the bill contains additional exceptions for breach of contract or warranty in connection with the purchase of a firearm or ammunition , and an exception for actions for damages resulting directly from a defect in design or manufacture of a firearm or ammunition .  recent trends in abusive litigation have inspired lawsuits against the firearms industry on the theory of liability that would hold it financially responsible for the actions of those who use their products in a criminal or unlawful manner .  such lawsuits threaten to rip tort law from its moorings in personal responsibility and may force firearms manufacturers into bankruptcy .  while some of these lawsuits have been dismissed and some states have acted to address them , the fact remains that these lawsuits continue to be aggressively pursued .  the intended consequences of these frivolous lawsuits could not be more clear : the financial ruin of the firearms industry .  as one of the personal injury lawyers suing american firearms companies told the washington post , `` the legal fees alone are enough to bankrupt the industry. '' lawsuits seeking to hold the firearms industry responsible for the criminal and unlawful use of its products are brazen attempts to accomplish through litigation what has not been achieved by legislation and the democratic process .  various courts have correctly described such suits as `` improper attempts to have the court substitute its judgment for that of the legislature. '' as explained by another federal judge , `` the plaintiff 's attorneys simply want to eliminate handguns. '' personal injury lawyers are seeking to obtain through the courts stringent limits on the sale and distribution of firearms beyond the court 's jurisdictional boundaries .  a new york appeals court stated recently that `` courts are the least suited , least equipped , and thus the least appropriate branch of government to regulate and micro-manage the manufacturing , marketing , distribution , and sale of handguns. '' law enforcement , military personnel rely on the domestic firearms industry to supply them with reliable and accurate weapons that can best protect them in the line of fire .  the best and most reliable guns will not be those designed under the requirements personal injury attorneys seek to impose through firearms lawsuits .  rather , these lawsuits threaten to injure the domestic firearms industry , endanger the jobs of thousands of hard-working americans , and provide to foreign manufacturers an unfair advantage .  one abusive lawsuit filed in a single county could destroy a national industry and deny citizens nationwide the right to keep and bear arms guaranteed by the constitution .  insofar as these lawsuits have the practical effect of burdening interstate commerce in firearms , congress has the authority to act under the commerce clause of the constitution .  the lawful commerce in arms act , by prohibiting abusive lawsuits against the firearms industry , supports core federalism principles articulated by the united states supreme court , which has made it clear that `` one state 's power to impose burdens on the interstate market ... ..  is not only subordinate to the federal power over interstate commerce but is also constrained by the need to respect the interests of other states ... ..  `` before closing , i think it is important to set the record straight on one item .  some news outlets have claimed that this legislation would have barred a lawsuit involving the d.c .  sniper and the gun the sniper obtained after it was stolen from a washington state gun shop that did not keep track of its inventory and did not realize that the guns were stolen .  anyone who actually reads this bill will immediately realize that that claim is patently false , and it is important to note that some of the editorial pundits apparently do not believe in reading the bills before they write and publish .  under s. 397 a plaintiff would be permitted to conduct discovery to establish the facts and circumstances surrounding what happened to the firearm while in the possession , custody , and control of the dealer and how it came into the possession of the criminal shooters .  a plaintiff would be permitted to have his or her day in court to try to establish whether the dealer knowingly violated or made any false entry in , or failed to make an appropriate entry in , his records , which he is required to keep pursuant to federal law .  i have here a report of violations filed by the bureau of alcohol , tobacco , and firearms regarding the washington state gun dealer .  it contains a record of dozens of violations of federal law and quoting the following : `` the licensee 's , '' that is , the dealer 's , `` bound books were examined and compared to the physical inventory .  it was initially determined that there were approximately 300 unaccounted for firearms .  these initial 300-plus unaccounted for firearms are considered instances of failure to timely record disposition information in the bound record book. '' so under s. 397 a lawsuit against that dealer could go forward , and i include this report in the record at this point .  report of violations name and address of proprietor : borgelt , brian & amp ; carr , charles n , bulls eye shooters supply , 114 puyallup ave. , tacoma , wa 98421 .  license / permit registry number ( if any ) : 000003013e38708 .  county ( f & amp ; e only ) : pierce .  expiration date ( if any ) : 5/12/2003 .  date ( s ) or period of inspection : 10/25/2002 through 11/02/2002 .  please write firmly with a ball point pen when completing this form .  aft officers will prepare this form in quadruplicate .  the original copy and the suspense copy ( where required ) will be given to the proprietor or a responsible person representative .  the remaining copies will be submitted with the completed inspection report .  supervisors will detach one copy from the completed report for their files .  where corrective action can not be taken during inspection , proprietors will submit the suspense copy to the area supervisor as soon as the required corrections have been made .  an examination of your premises , records and operations has disclosed the following violations which have been explained to you : reference number : 1. nature of violation : 27 cfr section 178.124 ( a ) .  failure to maintain atf f4473s recording firearm transfers to non-licensees .  information obtained from the washington department of licensing indicates 25 handgun transfers to nonlicensed individuals for which you had no completed atf f4473s .  additionally , 5 firearms transfers to nonlicensed individuals were located in your computer sales records for which you had no atf form 4473s .  citation : 27 cfr 178 .  date planned correction : corrective action : the licensee shall endeavor to locate the required disposition records , such as atf f4473s , in order to show evidence that a proper transfer occurred .  reference number : 2. nature of violation : 27 cfr section 178.124 ( b ) .  failure to keep atf f4473s in alphabetical , chronological , or numerical order .  the inspection uncovered an area behind the store register where atf f4473s were kept .  the area comprised of one lateral file cabinet drawer and a stack of forms .  there were 1257 unfiled atf f4473s .  filing by stock # is not an acceptable method of filing atf f4473s .  citation : 27 cfr 178 .  date planned correction : corrective action : the licensee shall immediately file atf f4473s that were found unfiled during the inspection , including any future completed atf f4473s .  reference number : 3 nature of violation : 27 cfr section 178.124 ( c ) ( 3 ) ( iii ) .  failure to properly record on atf f 4473 the date on which the licensee contacted the nics , response provided by the system , and/or any identification number provided by the system .  there were 14 atf f 4473s that did not record this information .  citation : 27 cfr 178 .  date planned correction : corrective action : the licensee shall ensure that the complete background check information is properly entered in the designated area on the atf f 4473 .  reference number : 4 nature of violation : 27 cfr 178.125 ( e ) .  failure to record dispositions made in the bound books .  the licensee 's bound books were examined and compared to the physical inventory .  it was initially determined that there were approximately 300 unaccounted for firearms .  these initial 300+ unaccounted for firearms are considered instances of failure to timely record disposition information in the bound record book .  some ways of locating proper disposition of these missing firearms included : 70 atf forms 4473 filed that did not get properly entered as bound book dispositions ; 25 handgun transactions determined through the state of washington dept .  of licensing with no bound book entries ; at least 10 dispositions to other licensees unrecorded ; and at least 6 dispositions to nonlicensees located in computer sales records that have no proper disposition .  even after using various sources , 78 firearms remain missing at the close of this inspection with no idea of where they went .  list provided to licensee .  citation : 27 cfr 178 .  date planned correction : corrective action : the licensee shall research and resolve all unaccounted open dispositions , and properly record the 70 atf f 4473 dispositions into the bound books .  see attached list of 78 firearms unaccounted for and report them on an atf f 3310.11 , licensee theft/loss report .  see list of firearms that no atf f 4473s have been located on but other records of transfer have been : such as 25 firearms identified by the washington department of licensing and computer records indicating a sale but no other information in regards to the transfer .  in addition , the licensee will annotate the bound book disposition entries with date , name , and address and note that no atf f 4473 exists .  report bushmaster rifle , model pcwa3x , serial number l284320 on an atf f f3310.11 , licensee theft/loss report , and make note in the bound book .  i have received a copy of this report of violations ( proprietor 's signature and title ) : date : signature and title of inspection officer : sandra y. sherlock , atf inspector .  date : 11/04/2002 note : proprietors must notify the atf official below when corrective actions required as a result of this inspection have been completed .  failure to notify atf may subject proprietors to a recall inspection or to other administrative action .  mail or delivery to ( address ) : area supervisor , bureau of alcohol , tobacco , and firearms , 915 2nd avenue , room 790 , seattle , wa 98174 .  i certify that the corrective actions required as a result of this inspection have been completed .  signature and title of proprietor : other remarks mr. speaker , this commonsense legislation is long overdue .  congress must fulfill its constitutional duty , then exercise its authority under the commerce clause to deny a few state courts the power to bankrupt the national firearms industry and deny all americans their fundamental constitutionally guaranteed right to bear arms .  i urge the passage of this critical legislation .  mr. speaker , i reserve the balance of my time .  mr. speaker , i yield myself 30 seconds .  mr. speaker , the plain language of the bill says that the hypothetical the gentleman from maryland just talked about falls under the negligent entrustment exemption from the bill , so a lawsuit could proceed .  read the bill .  mr. speaker , i yield myself the balance of my time .  mr. speaker , a gun by its very nature must be dangerous .  so may an automobile or a knife , or a piece of machinery that does not work properly .  there are a lot of dangerous things that we as human beings utilize ; and if they work properly , they can be utilized for something that is good and something that is lawful .  tort law , however , rests upon a foundation of individual responsibility , in which the product may not be defined as defective unless there is something wrong with the product , rather than with the product 's user .  and what this bill attempts to do is to get tort law back to its original moorings where the manufacturer of the product that is not defective in its nature is not legally liable for the criminal misuse of that product by its user .  that is what the issue is before the house today in consideration of s. 397 .  now , s. 397 while preventing frivolous and abusive lawsuits also ensures that bad actors can continue to be sued .  the bill allows the following types of lawsuits to be filed : first , an action against a person who transfers a firearm or ammunition knowing that it will be used to commit a crime of violence or drug-trafficking crime or a comparable or identical state felony law ; second , an action brought against the seller for negligent entrustment or negligence , per se ; third , actions in which a manufacturer or seller of a qualified product violates a state or federal statute applicable to the sales or marketing when such violation was the proximate cause of the harm for which the relief is sought .  and this exception would specifically allow lawsuits against firearms dealers such as the dealer whose firearm ended up in the hands of the d.c .  snipers and those who fail to maintain the required inventory lists necessary to ensure they are alerted to any firearms theft ; fourth , actions for breach of contact or warranty in connection with the purchase of a firearm or ammunition , and actions for damages resulting directly from a defect in design or manufacture of a firearm or ammunition .  this is a carefully crafted bill .  it provides immunity for people who have not done anything wrong , even thought their products may be used in a criminal nature ; but it does allow lawsuits to proceed against the bad actors .  it ought to be passed .  i am sure it will be passed , and finally we can lay this issue to rest after 6 years of debate .  i urge the members to support this legislation , to send it to the president for his signature , and then we can move on .  mr. speaker , on that i demand the yeas and nays .  mr. speaker , i thank the distinguished chairman of the committee on the judiciary for his help in bringing this bill to the floor .  he has been a leader on this bill in shepherding it through the committee on the judiciary time and time again .  i also want to thank my colleague from virginia ( mr. boucher )  for introducing this bill with me through the last three sessions of congress and all the other members who have strongly supported the protection of lawful commerce in arms act over the years .  mr. speaker , this is a bipartisan bill .  almost the same bill passed this house on this floor 285 to 140 .  over 60 democrats supported it .  this legislation will stop baseless lawsuits against gun manufacturers or dealers based on the criminal or unlawful third-party misuse of firearms .  this may seem like an obvious idea .  after all , would we hold a car company responsible if a driver gets drunk or reckless and hits somebody with a vehicle ?  of course not .  this is the united states of america where we are responsible for our own actions ; but yet these frivolous lawsuits against a vital , legitimate and perfectly lawful industry have continued unabated for the last several years in the simple hope of bankrupting this industry .  this is a commonsense , logical piece of legislation whose time has come .  the states , the courts and the american people have decided again and again that these harmful and baseless lawsuits are unfair and must be done away with .  if anyone does not believe me , let us take a look at this map .  it shows that 33 states , or two-thirds of the united states , have laws prohibiting these same frivolous lawsuits .  these states consider it fair and just to prevent these junk lawsuits .  i am proud to say my home state of florida is one of those states .  the bill we are considering today is designed to simply mirror these states and what they have done to provide a unified system of laws united states-wide .  there have also been dozens and dozens of lawsuits at the local , state , and federal levels which have rejected this theory that gun manufacturers should be held liable for what violent criminals do with their lawful products .  i have three charts here which list in detail these cases .  it is really quite impressive the number of these frivolous lawsuits that have been rejected out of hand .  if my colleagues would bear with me , i would like to focus on a recent case in this last chart which is circled .  this case took place in the county of los angeles , california .  the cities of los angeles , san francisco , and 12 other california municipalities filed lawsuits against 28 manufacturers , six distributors and three associations .  this was a mammoth case and they lost .  they appealed it , and it was unanimously upheld by a lower court and the appellate court .  i would remind my colleagues that this is an idea that has been enormously popular with the public , also .  a march 2005 poll conducted by the moore information public information research company showed that a remarkable 79 percent of the american people believe that firearm manufacturers should not be held legally responsible for violence committed by armed criminals .  the fact of the matter is that there are several pending lawsuits which continue to abuse the judicial system and would threaten legitimate , lawful businesses , including in new york city and right here in the district of columbia .  we must also consider that just the mere threat of these suits or taking the first couple of legal steps to defend these suits simply can be enough to force some of the smaller companies out of business .  as one proponent of this tactic once bragged , we are going to make the gun industry die a `` death by a thousand cuts. '' this legislation will end these coercive and undemocratic lawsuits .  i remind my colleagues and those who are watching at home that this legislation is very narrowly tailored to allow suits against any bad actors to proceed .  it includes carefully crafted exceptions to allow legitimate victims their day in court for cases involving defective firearms , breaches of contract , criminal behavior by a gun maker or seller , or the negligent entrustment of a firearm to an irresponsible person .  in conclusion , mr. speaker , i am pleased that we are voting on this bill .  it has been a 6-year effort .  it is with a great deal of satisfaction to the 257 bipartisan cosponsors that this bill , h.r. 800 , as amended by the senate and passed by the senate two to one , 65 to 31 , is poised to pass in this congress as a bipartisan law .  i urge my colleagues to join with us in voting for this piece of legislation .  mr. speaker , by direction of the committee on rules , i call up house resolution 509 and ask for its immediate consideration .  mr. speaker , it is right out there in front of everybody : republicans are good on policy and , evidently , the democrats do not like the politics .  the policy is what this financial services committee is all about .  that is why they produced this great bill .  mr. speaker , reclaiming my time , so that the gentleman does understand the facts of the case , the committee had no discussion on this point .  the discussion took place in the rules committee , because a decision was made well after may , at the time that the committee brought it forward .  mr. speaker , i reserve the balance of my time .  mr. speaker , i yield myself such time as i may consume .  mr. speaker , the gentleman from kansas city very clearly articulated the exact reason why this bill is moving forward , and the reason why chairman richard baker and the chairman of the committee , chairman mike oxley , have moved forward a bill that is so powerful , that will include more dollars .  but i believe that the argument that is here is about politics , pure and simple politics , rather than policy .  and this bill is about policy .  it is about getting millions of dollars that will be given to the source at which we will create more and better housing for really poor people .  the gentleman referred to him being a member of the united methodist church .  i am a member of the united methodist church .  when you look at a web site for habitat for humanity , you will see large corporations on that list who contribute to new houses in this country , not-for-profits and others ; and number four on that list is my church , of the entire country , my church the highland park united methodist church of dallas , texas .  we build houses in dallas , texas , for poor people , people who are without that ability for their families .  but what we are asking here is the ability to move this bill to create thousands of more homes .  and i think what mike oxley wants in this bill is to make it about policy , not about politics .  and i am proud of how we are doing this .  mr. speaker , i reserve the balance of my time .  mr. speaker , i yield back the balance of my time , and i move the previous question on the resolution .  the previous question was ordered .  mr. chairman , i yield myself such time as i may consume .  i think it important to realize how we came to this point with just the briefest of look-backs over historical performance of the three enterprises that will be subject to the new regulatory standards .  in may of 1996 , both hud and the treasury agencies issued reports to the committee which were suggestive of reforms which ought to be considered and adopted by the congress , to which the then-acting vice president for corporate relations at fannie mae made the following professional comment : `` this is the work of economic pencil brains who would n't recognize something that works for ordinary home buyers if it bit them in their erasers. '' to which the cbo responded to the criticisms : not only do the managements of fannie mae and freddie mac have a fiduciary responsibility to defend shareholder interest , but their own financial interests and compensation are closely linked to the continued flow of subsidies to the enterprises .  how prescient were those observations of the cbo in 1996 .  it required almost a decade longer before it was discovered that earnings manipulations not only had led to significant restatements , they had triggered another consequence .  bonuses paid by the corporations to management at fannie mae were tied directly to earnings per share , and there were categories of earnings that triggered highest , moderate and lowest bonuses that could be paid .  apparently in a given year , the earnings per share target was hit to one-thousandths of a cent accuracy , i was later told by mathematical probability it just happened , that triggered the payment of $ 65 million in bonuses in a single year .  over the period of 2001 to 2003 , the period of time for which financials have still not been certified , total bonuses paid amounted to $ 154.3 million .  these bonuses are in addition to base salaries and other benefits , and represent money provided by the american taxpayers through guarantees of obligations that the agencies are able to use in the business world to yield profits for shareholders and evidently profits for themselves .  further examination of the ability of the regulator to intervene even in the matter of the unwarranted bonuses was later proven in court to be insufficient to bar payment of the bonuses until criminal illegality is proved .  that matter is still under examination at the moment .  the bill , however , is important for other reasons to taxpayers .  this enterprise will stand between the agencies who issue debt and engage in housing activities and significant potential losses to taxpayers should either of the enterprises ever be found under significant financial duress .  the regulator historically has been impaired .  it is the only financial regulator in the united states which must come to the congress for its funding .  all other regulators are funded by assessments on the regulated entities .  we fixed that problem .  all other regulators have the ability to reach inside the organization of a financial enterprise and adjust its capital requirements .  that is money put in the sock drawer for a rainy day .  in case something goes bad , you need to have capital .  for the ofheo-regulated enterprises , you had to come to the congress and pass an act of congress to adjust the capital .  if any other financial enterprise were to get into financial duress and be unwound in the marketplace , that process is called receivership .  not so for fannie mae and freddie mac .  there are special provisions that allow the congress to intervene in protection of their financial interest .  this bill remedies that problem .  there are a host of other matters that the 360 pages of the bill address , but probably the most important is a tool used by regulators today in financial enterprises known as prompt corrective action .  that means if a regulator sees an activity that could lead to injury of shareholders and taxpayers , it can intercede at a very early time and require a cessation of those activities or simply prohibit them from doing it again .  we provide for prompt corrective action .  what we enable with the passage of this bill is the creation of an independently funded regulator , with all the tools a modern financial regulator should have to oversee vastly complex financial enterprises to protect the american taxpayer from unwarranted losses .  besides the criticism leveled at the bill today relative to affordable housing , there is another issue which i feel appropriate to address , and that is relative to the growth constraints on the investment portfolios of the two enterprises .  they have , in the aggregate , $ 1.6 trillion invested in the two portfolios .  under the prudential management and operations standards of the bill , the director of the new enterprise shall examine counterparty risks ; management of interest rate risks ; adequacy and maintenance of liquidity and reserves ; management of asset and investment portfolios ; investments and acquisitions ; overall risk management processes ; and , if we did not cover it in that list , such other operational and management standards as the director determines to be appropriate .  that translates into , if you do not see it on our list , mr. director , go do it anyway , because we are giving you the authority .  finally , as to the ability to establish how the portfolio should be reduced and to what level , secretary snow testified before our committee he could not tell us how to do it or to what level they should be adjusted , but he did go on to say it should be the subject of professional examination and recommendation .  finally , on page 273 of the bill , we read : `` an analysis of the potential systemic risk implications for the enterprises , the housing and capital markets , and the financial system of portfolio holdings , and whether such holdings should be limited or reduced over time , '' is the director 's obligation to engage in professional study , make recommendations to the congress if congressional action is needed , or otherwise act in the best interest of the united states taxpayer .  finally , with regard to the concerns over the affordable housing disposition , it should be pointed out these funds are not available today .  this is a new fund .  if people are engaged in assistance as a charitable activity in affording housing to low-income individuals and registering people to vote , this bill will not preclude that activity from going forward .  what it merely says is that in an instance where we have limited funds available , estimated to be perhaps $ 500 million spread across the entire country , that those funds first and foremost should be utilized to help people in true need of housing , not political activism .  if one is engaged in political activism and building houses as of today 's date , you can continue to do it .  if you wish to be engaged in this fund going forward , you will have to make a policy decision , do i wish to continue political activism , or do i really want to help people get in homes ?  mr. chairman , i represent to the house this is a fair bill , fair compromise and responsible action on the part of this house , and i urge members to support its adoption .  mr. chairman , i reserve the balance of my time .  mr. chairman , i reserve the balance of my time .  mr. chairman , i demand a recorded vote .  mr. speaker , this is a very important vote under consideration .  i wish to point out that 3.5 percent assessment of net profits for the first 2 years will generate an estimated $ 400 million a year nationwide .  the identified needs for hurricane katrina only are probably in excess of $ 300 billion for housing-related activities .  if we add rita and wilma , the funds will be far depleted before we ever get to the issue of whether we need to be engaged in voter registration or voter transport to the precincts .  if one were to go to trailer city on groom road in baker , louisiana , and walk up to one of those trailers and say , hey , folks , i am here from the federal government and i want to buy a new van to haul you to the precinct next year to go vote , what kind of response do you think you will get if you said that will come at the expense of advancing replacement housing for families to go home ?  and then let us talk about the administration of the program .  how do you confirm affordable housing works and they are doing it ?  you look at the lot and see the house .  you knock on the door and see if anybody is inside .  that is easy .  how do you confirm that the money being spent for voter enhancement , education , and transportation is used for a valid purpose ?  do you go to uncle bob 's rv trailer park and look to see if they are using those vehicles for voter transport ?  how do we know ?  the idea here is we have very restricted resources .  we have an incredibly large problem to resolve with response to the hurricanes .  we know that by deploying these resources this way , we can ensure we are helping people in the most effective manner possible .  we should come back through regular order , have committee hearings and talk about it .  how are we going to have advocacy for people to be able to vote and participate ?  and if we want to fund that , fund it separately .  this is not the time , not the place , not the way .  please , do not vote for this motion to recommit .  mr. chairman , i thank chairman baker for yielding me this time ; and to call me a co-contributor , when one considers all the effort he has put into this , is a vast overstatement .  i have never seen , during the time i have been here , which is a number of years now , a legislator work so hard on a particular issue ; and i congratulate chairman baker for getting it this far .  and i would like to thank the ranking member .  the gentleman from massachusetts ( mr. frank )  has been extremely helpful .  i do not know where this is going to come out in the end because of the discussion and dispute over the affordable housing fund .  but , basically , i think the underlying bill is a heck of a sound bill .  i would like to credit both sides .  we do not have a lot of legislation on this floor which is really done with the best interests of america at heart without any consideration for politics , republican or democrat ; and i think this is one piece of legislation that does this .  i doubt there are those , other than the gentleman from massachusetts ( mr. frank )  and the gentleman from louisiana ( mr. baker )  , and maybe three or four other people in congress , a few on the outside , who can really describe all that this means in terms of the gses .  when you are dealing with fannie mae and freddie mac and the home loan banks , virtually any mortgage out there is in some way touching on them .  they have vast investments .  they have vast sums of dollars that they are handling on a regular basis .  if there are any organizations that need close scrutiny and regulation in this country , to me it is these gses .  that is what this bill does .  i am not critical of those who have been doing the regulation before , but the bottom line is there were some problems .  we do need the most sophisticated kind of regulation that we can have , because they are participating in some of the most sophisticated kinds of investments that one can make .  we are dealing with a housing market ; and while i hope there will not be a bubble or anything of that nature , there are problems potentially in that area that we will have to deal with , and we want to make sure that they are closely monitored so they will not contribute to that particular problem .  i appreciate the affordable housing fund .  i am sorry there is a dispute over it .  i think the concept of the affordable housing fund makes a heck of a lot of sense as well .  i would strongly recommend this legislation .  i hope it will pass in the house and we can achieve this as final legislation that the president can sign and all of us can take a great deal of pride in doing something that is constructive for america .  mr. chairman as we consider h.r. 1461 , the federal housing finance reform act , i would like to urge my colleagues to support the inclusion of a provision to provide an increase in conforming loan limits for high cost metropolitan service areas , msas .  since 1980 , the price of homeownership in new york has increased by 492 percent , and continues to escalate in the current housing market .  with drastically higher prices than other parts of the country , homeownership in the area has limited access for lower and middle income new yorkers .  the gse 's chartered mission is to expand homeownership for low to middle income americans , and this should apply to americans regardless of the geographic region in which they reside .  in working towards achieving this mission , fannie mae and freddie mac are restricted in their ability to participate in these high cost areas because significantly fewer mortgages fall within the conforming loan limit .  the current loan limit is set at $ 359 , 650 .  the median price of a home in the new york area , however , is $ 435 , 200 -- considerably higher even for entry level home prices .  while the current loan limit has been raised to the lesser of 150 percent of the statutory limit or the median home price in alaska , hawaii , guam and the virgin islands , high cost metropolitan areas like new york city have been left out .  language included in h.r. 1461 would increase loan limits in high cost areas to the maximum of the area 's median home purchase price , capped at 150 percent of the current limit .  raising these limits will help lower to middle income residents in high cost areas like staten island gain access to the lower interest mortgage rates fannie and freddie are able to provide -- mortgage rates that , compared to jumbo loans , can save my constituents as much as $ 135 a month .  fannie and freddie are able to provide lower interest rates to homebuyers and expand homeownership through the contributions of the american taxpayer .  it is time the taxpayers in high cost areas like new york city realize the benefits of their contributions through access to lower interest mortgages .  the current disparity is undeniable .  i urge my colleagues to support the conforming loan limits language and vote no on attempts to remove it from the federal housing finance reform act .  mr. chairman , i rise today to compliment both chairman baker and chairman oxley for their work in order to put together a bill that the main purpose which is to regulate and strengthen the regulation of fannie mae and freddie mac .  if anyone here questions the need for additional remedies such as regulations , all we have to do is look at a brief history going back a couple of years of these two entities .  back in january of 2003 , freddie mac issued a press release and stated it will issue an unaudited statement of earnings for the year 2002 and restate accounting results for prior years .  november of the next year , november 2003 , freddie issues a restatement of past accounting results for the year 2000 , 2001 , 2002 , and revises its net earnings upwards by $ 4.4 billion that they were off in their records .  september of 2004 , ofheo makes public a report highly critical of accounting methods of fannie mae .  november of 2004 , fannie announces that it is unable again to file a third-quarter earning statement because its auditor , kpmg , refused to sign off on the accounting results .  december of 2004 , the securities and exchange commission , the sec , issues a statement supporting ofheo 's report and orders fannie to restate its financial results .  again , in december of 2004 , the fannie ceo franklin raines and cfo tim howard have to resign from those entities .  finally , in june of 2005 , after 3 years , finally freddie issues its first audited annual report since the year 2002 .  and now we are here in october , and we look back about a week or so ago , and press reports are out again suggesting that investigators have uncovered again new accounting violations of fannie mae , possibly including overvalued assets , underreported credit losses , and misused tax credits .  mr. chairman , if there was ever a need of entities that need additional regulation , it is fannie mae and freddie mac .  if there are ever two entities that need to be limited in their size , it is these two entities .  if there were every two entities that need not grow , it is these two entities .  i applaud the chairmen for their work to regulate them .  mr. chairman , i rise in support of this legislation , which strengthens the language with regard to portfolios and gses .  the gses claim that they are shock absorbers in the system .  one of the main reasons that fannie and freddie claim they should not have their portfolios limited is that they provide a stable means of support for the residential finance markets at times of crisis .  fannie 's ceo , dan mudd , testified that `` our mortgage portfolio allows us to play a shock-absorbing function for the finance system during times of potential difficulty. '' this week , freddie 's president , eugene mcquade , was quoted as saying that the enterprises provided a source of stability to the mortgage finance market after the september 11 terrorist attacks .  this is a nice thought , mr. chairman .  however , their statements are not true .  if you look at fannie 's purchases for its portfolio during every month of 2001 , you will notice that its purchases in september of 2001 , of that year , were the lowest level of anytime during that year .  fannie might argue that they acted as a shock absorber not by buying mortgages and mbs , but by committing to buy in succeeding months .  mr. chairman , i will conclude by saying that we should support these significant portfolio limitations in order to make sure that gses are able to be reined in and not become what they have said they are and go out of their range of portfolio .  madam chairman , i yield myself 1 minute .  we must remember what the original focus of the gses was when they were initially chartered by this congress , they were to do two things , and that is to provide liquidity to the marketplace and also to help provide for facilitating low-income buyers coming into the marketplace .  it is already set up in the law that the amount that gses can lend can go up every year .  as it is right now , it stands at $ 359 , 000 .  it is set to go up to $ 400 , 000 for next year , in 2006 .  as the bill was amended in committee , it comes out now that that will go up by 50 percent .  i ask the question , how would we define somebody who is about to buy a $ 600 , 000 home ?  that individual would have to be making an income of around $ 200 , 000 .  even if they are firemen , policemen , teachers , who have you , they would still need an income of $ 200 , 000 in order to buy a home at $ 600 , 000 .  that was not the intent of gses .  the intent was to help the low-income market to get their homes .  by allowing the gses to get into this market , what we are doing is distracting them from their purpose and hurting those very people that they were intended to help : low-income people , whether they are in new jersey or california or other high-interest-rate states , to be able to buy their first time .  madam chairman , i reserve the balance of my time .  madam chairman , i yield myself 20 seconds .  madam chairman , the assertion that this would be devastating to the market runs contrary to the facts before the committee .  there was no evidence whatsoever presented to the committee to say that the system in place in states such as new jersey or california or elsewhere are in need of gses to come in to increase their conforming limits by 50 percent .  there is already an additional market out there that allows for people to buy jumbo loans ; and there are a number of different variations , adjustable rate loans , that allow people who are in the upper brackets and making $ 200 , 000 to be able to afford and to buy these mortgages .  madam chairman , i demand a recorded vote .  that is correct .  but secondly , if you do not have concern for competitive equity , you put the taxpayer at greater risk because you will have weaker standards .  you also drive a system that we will be putting all assets of a given kind of industry within a governmentally privileged institution .  that is what the trends are .  so this is both a taxpayer protection and free market protection .  mr. chairman , i demand a recorded vote .  madam chairman , the gentleman should have been consistent and deleted alaska , guam , hawaii , and the virgin islands .  mr. chairman , i rise today in support of the bill .  as chairman of the subcommittee on housing and community opportunity , i have had a keen interest in the strength of the mortgage market .  the mortgage market has single-handedly kept the economy afloat during these difficult economic times .  passage of this bill sends an important signal that we understand the importance of gses and the secondary-mortgage markets in maintaining a stable economy .  more importantly , i want to comment on the issues of affordable housing and the effect of the affordable housing fund , which is a great fund to have , and we have worked with the minority on this issue and the gentleman from ohio ( mr. oxley )  and his staff and our staff .  i believe that we will have a profound impact on the country with the fund .  as members know , it is very difficult to achieve the delicate balance between meeting public policy goals and ensuring a free market business climate .  the creation of the government-sponsored enterprises was one such feat that provides an invaluable public service of creating and maintaining a secondary market for the mortgage markets .  as a result , our homeownership rates and our access to capital are the best in the world .  on the other hand , i also understand that because these financial institutions are creatures of the federal government , we also have a responsibility to ensure they achieve a public-policy purpose .  homeownership rates among minority families are increasing , but we can obviously do much better than the current average of 50 percent for african americans , hispanic urban and rural communities , just to name a few .  we have to ensure that these communities that have not been full participants in the pursuit of the american dream can be reached .  fannie mae and freddie mac own or guarantee nearly half of this country 's residential mortgage market .  the legislation we are considering today would markedly improve gse performance of their housing mission .  the committee on financial services approved major sections on new single-family and multi-family housing goals ; the duty to serve lower income markets , and i stress duty to serve them ; and a new affordable housing fund with contributions from the enterprises .  of course , there are other parts of this bill that are good , and i give credit to the gentleman from ohio ( mr. oxley )  and the gentleman from louisiana ( mr. baker )  in strengthening oversight .  today , i just wanted to speak freely on the actual housing fund .  i urge my colleagues to support this legislation .  i look forward to working with the gentlewoman on that issue .  i look forward to clarifying this language with the help of the gentlewoman from ohio .  mr. speaker , i rise in opposition to the motion to recommit .  mr. speaker , i never thought a debate on gse reform would be so emotional , and it has been a long day and a very productive day and a good debate .  let me , first of all , say to my friend from massachusetts , who worked very well with us in committee on this important legislation , let us not lose sight of the fact that this is the first major gse reform bill to ever come before any congress .  it was well written and well received , and it does a lot to create a world-class regulator for the gses .  secondly , it creates for the first time a housing fund that will funnel millions and millions of dollars into affordable housing through the gses , and i think we do not want to lose sight of that .  thirdly , this legislation does not ban faith-based groups from providing housing .  all it says is that we want groups that have had a record of building houses , a record of building houses in the various states , to be able to do that .  we want to make certain that that money is used for housing , not for political activity , not for lobbying or everything else .  fourthly , let me add , the gentleman from massachusetts ( mr. frank )  in his motion talks about a nonpartisan basis .  there is no definition in the campaign laws that i can find that defines what is essentially nonpartisan , and i think we need to keep that in mind .  understand this effort is to try to get as much money into the areas , in particularly the first 2 years in the hurricane-related areas , so we can provide affordable housing .  those folks along the gulf coast that were affected , florida , alabama , mississippi , texas , need to understand that this is the best way to provide affordable housing as quickly as possible with the maximum amount of oversight in this area .  mr. chairman , i demand a recorded vote .  i am not in need of any further time , and i thank the chairman for his understanding of these issues .  mr. speaker , i demand a recorded vote .  mr. chairman , i reserve the balance of my time .  mr. chairman , i thank the gentleman for yielding me time .  mr. chairman , many of us who have been privileged to serve in this great institution for some time have been through this process many times .  this is not the first or second or third .  we have had brac after brac .  but i could not agree more with my distinguished colleague from colorado ( mr. hefley )  who observed this was the best brac of all .  we are finally getting it right .  this was the least political , most professional brac we have ever had .  and that is a tribute to chairman principi and all of the distinguished members of the panel : admiral gehman ; general newton ; former congressman and colleague jim bilbray ; phil coyle ; sam skinner ; general turner ; jim hansen , another former colleague who served with great distinction ; and general hill .  this reads like a who 's who list of distinguished americans who are providing a very important service for our nation .  the fact is dod had too much physical inventory .  it is costing dod to maintain that physical inventory .  it is costing the taxpayers .  so understandably they wanted some realignment , adjustments ; and there had to be winners and losers .  as someone who has been on both sides of that issue , let me say i know what it is like .  i can feel the pain of the losers .  but i would say to those who are on the short end of the recommendation , one , you should have confidence that the recommendations were made once again by the least political , most professional brac we have ever had , a brac whose individual members , including the chairman , were available not just to have a courtesy photo opportunity , but to hear out those of us who had presentations before that commission .  they asked pertinent questions .  they had on-site visits .  they were very , very serious about their important work ; and they were not alone .  the highly dedicated and very competent professional staff of brac was even more accessible .  you can understand when you get on the phone and you try to get a conversation with chairman principi or general so-and-so or admiral so-and-so , a lot of people want to talk to them .  i must say that i was fortunate to be able to talk to each and every one of them .  i had quality time .  but the fact of the matter is the staff followed through once again with on-site visits , and that was so very important .  the dedication and determination demonstrated by the commission , its accessibility for individual members , their willingness to listen produced a product that i think we can all be proud of .  let me once again address those who represent communities who are not treated favorably by the brac recommendations .  i have been through that before with a magnificent air force base that dissolved back as a result of the 1993 commission report , and in 1995 it actually closed down with a couple of exceptions .  and there were some people in the community at large who wanted to write the economic obituary for that community , rome , new york , and the surrounding areas .  there were others , a lot of us , not just me , the mayor , the county executive , local officials , business communities , that were determined to make the best of a bad situation .  today , that once-vibrant military installation , griffis air force base , is now a very vibrant business and technology park with upwards of 4 , 000 people gainfully employed there ; but part of that installation involves an air force research laboratory which was set off as a containment area as a result of the decision to close the base in 1993 , and the people at dod and everywhere were wondering would this work .  it has worked in spades , and now the air force research laboratory , incidentally operating out of a $ 25 million state-of-the-art new facility , is the center of excellence for the entire air force in command , control , communications , and intelligence technology .  it is an information directorate , and it not only services the air force well but it services a whole wide range of other activities .  it is serving so well .  so brac looked at that and made the decision that some operations that had been located there should be transferred elsewhere in line with the overall scheme of the air force to consolidate like operations at a central facility .  some moved out ; some moved in .  the net result is maybe a gain of 15 to 25 jobs for rome , new york .  i am not supporting the brac because we have got 15 or 25 jobs .  i am supporting the process and what it did and what it produced .  let me tell my colleagues another story .  at that same business and technology park , we now have a defense finance accounting service , and that employs exactly 382 people .  dod said , well , we want to consolidate , restructure .  we do not need 26 locations all over the country .  we want to go down to three locations .  that did not really make a heck of a lot of sense ; and when all was said and done , when the brac looked at that , they recognized that maybe the answer was somewhere in between .  instead of going from 26 to three , they went from 26 to about five or six , consolidating , saving money , improving efficiency .  guess what .  this facility at rome , new york , which incidentally is operating and out of a new $ 10 million state-of-the-art facility , was examined very carefully .  they did not just listen to me , and they did not make a decision that was posited with that because i had a scintillating personality or i had some influence down here .  influence down here did not make much difference in this process .  what they listened to were the facts , and the facts are that when they examined all of the dfas operations , in 16 measurable categories where you could quantify , where you could measure , where you could compare the output of one against the other , this installation was at or near the top .  a final brac decision , not only are those 382 jobs preserved , 600 additional are coming .  so i say it from the perspective of a proud member of a district who is gaining , and i say it as a proud member of this institution who identified with creating a process that is serving our nation well ; and therefore , i would strongly oppose the resolution to disapprove and urge that the movement go forward .  mr. chairman , there is no shortage of valid complaints to be made of this round of the defense base realignment and closure commission 's work .  i generally support the brac process .  but what is important about the brac process is the process and how it is handled by the commission itself .  i feel that insufficient attention was paid to the role each individual base played in the united states national security , and , more importantly , the homeland security .  the recommendations seem to be based much more on bean counting than strategic value , nowhere more so than in the case of ellington field in houston , texas .  ellington field is currently home to the texas air national guard 's 147th fighter wing , who just got back from iraq and showed themselves to be exemplary not just in their efforts before going to iraq , but in iraq itself .  they were absolutely exemplary in their efforts and in their service .  we appreciate them in everything that they do .  but ellington is also home to several other branches and resources of our armed services , all of whom are responsible for the protection of the entire gulf coast .  its national and homeland security facilities should be plain to anyone as in need of more personnel , greater maintenance and better military assets .  yet the brac commission has chosen to realign ellington , removing its f-16 fighter wing and leaving the gulf coast , to my mind , in many ways more vulnerable than it is now .  the houston-galveston region has all nine of the fbi targets .  it is the only region in the entire united states that has all nine of those targets .  the commission 's ellington decision was a bad one .  i join with the proponents of this resolution and , for that matter , the two brac commissions , including chairman principi who voted to save ellington , in their frustration .  the flawed methodology and dangerous implications of the commission 's work , particularly with regard to the ellington field decision , leave me no choice but to oppose the brac recommendations and support the resolution before us .  we should all support the work of the brac commission to consolidate and improve the alignment of our military assets to strengthen our national security .  this round of recommendations , in my view , does not accomplish that goal .  i will continue to work on behalf of ellington field and to ensure national and homeland security interests of the gulf coast region .  mr. chairman , i reserve the balance of my time .  mr. chairman , i reserve the balance of my time .  mr. chairman , i yield myself the remaining time .  several members have spoken eloquently about the fact that this is our job .  mr. taylor  did an excellent job of that .  mr. abercrombie  did an excellent job of that , that we ought to be making these decisions , that we should not turn it over to a commission .  i would agree with that wholeheartedly , except this is a job that we simply can not seem to do .  we did not close a major base in this country from the 1970s until the brac process began .  i did not like supporting the brac process when the brac process was first introduced , but i saw it as the only way that we could ever deal with the question of excess inventory .  mr. chairman , reclaiming my time , we did , following the introduction of the brac process , but we did close that .  but we basically do not have the power to do that , because if i have the power to close mr. skelton 's base , he might vote to close my base , and we keep going around the room like that , and we are unable to do it .  so the brac process has worked for better or for worse .  i see both sides of it .  i chaired a committee that oversees the brac process .  i do not want any more brac processes like this .  but i would remind my colleagues again that if we vote for this resolution , and this resolution passes today , and we turn down this brac process , we will be back here in this room a year from now or 2 years from now , probably more like a year from now , we will be back in this room dealing with another brac process , and we will have the same arguments as we are having here today .  now , it may be different people .  maybe some of the people that are dissatisfied today will be satisfied at the next round , but we would all have to go through this again next year or the next .  and we would , all of our communities that have any base connected to them would have to go through this again .  i am not sure we would get any better results , no matter what process we use , than we have today .  some would be happy , some would be unhappy , some would complain , some would want it to go just like it is .  i think we would end up with the same kinds of results as we have today .  so while i agree that this is not a perfect process , i do not think we want to go through it again next year .  i would ask each of my colleagues to vote against this resolution , and let us proceed to make the best we possibly can out of this for the defense of this country .  mr. chairman , i rise reluctantly in support of this motion .  i have always supported the brac .  i have been here through three of these , and i always thought they were well reasoned before , win , lose or draw ; and by the standards of win , lose or draw , i probably came out okay in a lot of ways in this , because four out of five facilities in my area did well .  the army did well in this brac .  but i always thought the brac was based upon numbers and savings and mission , and suddenly i find out that is not true .  i am going to read something here in a minute about that .  that is what troubles me in this one , because the air force set out on a plan to arrive at a number , and they destroyed , in my opinion , much of what one of their components does best , and that is the air national guard .  let me give you an example .  at mansfield , ohio , they realigned the base .  `` realignment '' means you do not technically get brac'ed , but you get no airplanes , so you have to find something else to do .  let me tell you , the soldiers that were in the dome shortly after katrina were ohio army guardsmen .  they were flown there in 130s out of mansfield .  the soldiers that were in mississippi from ohio were flown down by 130s from mansfield .  the soldiers that were in texas from ohio were flown in by 130s from mansfield .  when brac gets done , there are not any airplanes at mansfield .  so how many days are we going to wait to come in and pick those people up and bring them down ?  because we have still got a large army guard that can perform , and they have shown they can perform ; but 2 years from now , that is not going to happen .  that does not look smart to me .  if you look at the chart that shows the support in the hurricane by the air national guard , it is far superior to what the air reserve did or especially the active duty in response to these hurricanes .  that is not going to be there 2 years from now .  now , closer to home , my springfield air national guard base .  it is a training base .  i did not ask to do this mission .  the air guard and the air force came to me and said , we screwed up .  we have closed much of our flight training .  we need another place to do this .  will your state take this on ?  my state said it will .  they came to me , i was chairman of the milcon , if you wonder how they came to me .  they said , will you take this on at your springfield f-16 base ?  we saluted and said , yes , sir , we will do it .  we put in over $ 85 million to make this a first-class flight school .  we have not even opened the $ 8.5 million tower yet .  we just finished the fire station .  we put in a $ 10 million pad .  and what do we find out ?  we are being realigned .  `` realigned '' means you lose your airplanes ; you lose your mission .  what are we going to do ?  now i find out there is another mission available for flight school , but they want to take it and possibly put it in another place , someplace else , and spend the money again and take these airplanes .  let me tell you what the commission 's findings were regarding springfield air national guard base .  i am upset because they always did this by the numbers in the past .  this was not done by the numbers , and that is why i am so infuriated about what happened , because i do not mind a fair fight .  we thought we had this won , until the air force went to the commissioners at the last moment and said , hey , you have got to change this , because they were going in the right direction the day before .  the next day when they got up , i knew we were dead .  let me read the commission findings : `` the commission found that the department of defense recommendation to realign springfield-beckley municipal airport air guard station should be supported even though the military value criteria were flawed and the realignment will be a cost instead of a savings to the department. '' i mean , give me a break .  it is flawed and there is no savings ; but , by the way , the mission is going away , and we are not going to train these pilots .  this place is training pilots better than they were expected to do and more than they were expected to do , and yet it is being realigned .  the airplanes are gone .  if we are going to do this this way , this is wrong and we have to stand up and say it is wrong .  i think this happened in more instances than just mine , and that is why i am so upset about the way this was done .  it was not done by the numbers ; it was done to drive to a number that the air force had to get to to save some airplanes like the f-22 and some other things .  so i am just hoping the people will vote in support of the resolution .  mr. chairman , i rise today to support this resolution of disapproval on the base realignment and closure commission 's ( brac ) recommendations that are now before congress .  this is not a decision that i have come to lightly .  during this latest brac round , there were several recommendations made that will benefit the state of ohio and the 7th congressional district that i represent .  however , i can not in good conscience accept a process that was fundamentally flawed and very unfair in the decisions made with regard to our country 's national guard and reserve .  i represent four military bases , including the springfield air national guard base ( ang ) , the defense supply center columbus ( dscc ) , wright patterson air force base ( afb ) , and rickenbacker international airport .  each of these military installations has an exceptional workforce dedicated to the military missions assigned to them , whether it is logistical support for deployed troops , research and development , or pilot training .  mr. chairman , this is the third brac round that i have been through , so i understand the importance of community leaders and base officials doing the homework necessary to define the installation 's military value , and the potential economic impact this process will have on communities where bases are located .  during this latest round , i would argue that ohio had some of the most hardworking and competent individuals working on behalf of our state 's installations .  we testified at hearings in buffalo and washington , dc , and briefed brac commissioners and staff during site visits to dscc in columbus and to wright-patterson .  we also worked together in reviewing the numbers used by the pentagon in making their brac recommendations .  mr. chairman , i think that i can speak for other delegations when stating that our efforts in getting information from the air force during this brac round did not start well .  when we requested material on how they came to their recommendations , we did n't receive it for weeks .  and when we did receive the data , it was inaccurate .  as i 've already stated , i was very disappointed by the dod and brac commission 's final recommendations with regard to the air national guard .  this was especially true regarding their recommendations to redistribute the 178th fighter wing f-16 aircraft from the springfield air national guard base .  i have said all along that if the brac process had been fair and done `` by the numbers '' , that i would accept the outcome , even if i did n't like it .  but unfortunately , this was not the case .  first of all , the brac analysis material stated there is only one f-16 formal training unit in the air national guard .  this is wrong !  there are two air national guard f-16 formal training units , and one of them is at the springfield ang base .  second , i was asked several years ago if i would support springfield taking on this training mission that would require specialized infrastructure to support it .  i was the chairman of the appropriations subcommittee for military construction at the time , and i agreed to support the air force in this effort .  more than $ 75 million in federal funding has been invested in the springfield base to support its f-16 training mission .  over the years , we have put in a new ramp to accommodate the plane , a flight simulator , a dining hall , an operations building , and a new control tower that is still under construction .  some of these assets are only now becoming operational .  third , everyone agrees there are no cost savings achieved by realigning the springfield ang base .  in fact , the commission actually concluded in its report that dod 's `` recommendation to realign the springfield base should be supported even though the military value criteria were flawed and the realignment will be a cost instead of savings to the pentagon. '' fourth , the air force lacks sufficient training capacity for f-16 pilots .  if we further reduce this capacity through this proposed realignment , it even further diminishes this capability , especially since this unit is the highest f-16 pilot production unit in the guard .  the brac analysis on springfield shows that operational personnel will begin to leave the base in 2007 , while there are student pilots scheduled for training in 2008 .  mr. chairman , there is also the issue of homeland security .  like some of my colleagues , i think it is fair for us to consider what these brac recommendations will mean for the future of the national guard in responding to emergency situations .  as we saw in the days following the recent hurricanes in the gulf coast region and on 9/11 , the air national guard was a critical resource in transporting troops , supplies and protection .  for example , the mansfield , ohio-based 179th airlift wing flew over 50 missions in support of hurricane katrina relief efforts .  yet , homeland security did not appear to be a major part of this brac process .  overall , i was very disappointed in the process by which the air national guard decisions were made , particularly the flaws in the air force analysis .  these flaws run throughout the entire brac process , from the consolidation of aircraft models , and the so-called right sizing of operations , to the poor or nonexistent analysis of the cost to replace the people from the locations that are being set aside .  this does n't even consider the recruiting and retention issues that we already face .  and , it does n't speak to the cost of personnel training to recreate this capability , and the loss of experience that will occur by the air force plans .  finally , i was dismayed that there was absolutely no discussion by the brac commissioners or staff regarding the national guard recommendations during the final considerations on august 26th .  until then , there was much talk about the lack of consultation and the quality of the recommendations by the air force throughout this brac round .  there was even the suggestion that the entire set should have been thrown out by the brac commission .  on the day the brac commission upheld their recommendation to realign the springfield air national guard base , i wrote a letter to each brac commissioner to express my disappointment with the way they handled decisions regarding the national guard .  i pointed out that there was no discussion when , by the numbers , we had demonstrated the flaws in the pentagon 's proposal .  i also asked for an explanation on how the commissioners arrived at their decision , and i received no answer .  finally , in early september , i wrote to the president requesting the same information , and for his consideration to send the recommendations impacting the air national guard back to the brac commission with instructions to use programmatic changes to reshape our state militia forces .  unfortunately , for the men and women in the guard and reserve , i am still waiting for a reply .  as i stated before , opposing the brac recommendations was not an easy decision .  overall , ohio faired well during the commission 's final proceedings .  wright-patterson will keep over 2 , 000 information and technology jobs that were to be transferred to hanscom , massachusetts , and it will also keep a first-class post-graduate program known as the air force institute of technology ( afit ) .  in columbus , the defense supply center will maintain its 6 , 000 jobs , and is scheduled to receive many high-paying jobs .  but , mr. chairman , i think that in the years to come when the recommendations regarding the guard and reserve are set in motion , people will realize that this latest brac round was flawed , and consequently the wrong thing to do .  it is for these reasons that i will stand here today and support this resolution to overturn the 2005 brac recommendations .  madam speaker , pursuant to section 2908 ( d ) of public law 101-510 , i move that the house resolve itself into the committee of the whole house on the state of the union for the consideration of the joint resolution ( h.j. res 65 ) disapproving the recommendations of the defense base closure and realignment commission .  mr. chairman , i yield 30 minutes to the gentleman from missouri ( mr. skelton )  , and i ask unanimous consent that he be allowed to control that time .  i also ask unanimous consent that i be allowed to designate the gentleman from colorado ( mr. hefley )  as controlling our time .  mr. chairman , i yield myself such time as i may consume .  mr. chairman , tonight marks the end of a long and difficult process for selecting military installations for closure and realignment .  under brac law , the realignment and closure recommendations by the brac 2005 commission will become binding , unless a joint resolution of disapproval , such as the one before us today , is enacted .  for those of us with military installations in our districts , the brac process is a trying one .  and i might mention we have had four brac rounds previous to this one .  every one of us spent the last 4 years making a case to the pentagon and the brac commission with respect to the military value of our bases .  nevertheless , both dod and the brac commission have determined that a portion of our military infrastructure should be closed or realigned .  as a result , the final recommendations of the commission include 22 closures that we would designate as major closures , 33 major realignments , and many smaller closure and realignment actions .  according to the commission , these actions will save more than $ 15 billion over the next two decades with annual savings of more than $ 2.5 billion after implementation .  some of my colleagues have questioned the need for a round of brac and the timing of this round .  while i understand and appreciate such concerns , i believe that these issues have been thoroughly discussed and debated .  in addition , by a vote of 43 to 14 , the armed services committee reported this resolution adversely to the house with a recommendation that it do not pass .  as such , i intend to vote against house joint resolution 65 today , thereby allowing the brac commission recommendations to stand , and i would urge my colleagues to join me in doing so .  on a final note , i would like to thank the brac commissioners for their service .  since their appointments this spring , the commissioners visited more than 170 installations , conducted 20 regional hearings and 20 deliberative hearings , and participated in hundreds of meetings with public officials .  also , mr. chairman , i would particularly like to thank the chairman of the commission , anthony j. principi .  tony principi took on another tough one in chairing this brac commission .  it is a commission in which you get beaten up lots of times , second-guessed a lot , and cross-examined a lot .  yet , it is a necessary position , and it is one that requires a guy or a lady with a lot of integrity .  chairman principi is just such a person .  also , we had on our committee two former members of the armed services committee who were on the brac commission , jim bilbray and jim hansen , and mr. chairman , they have served us well as senior statesmen in again what amounted to very , very difficult roles .  i would like to acknowledge the good work of all of the commissioners .  it is not an easy job and it is , to some degree , a very thankless job .  nonetheless , it is necessary and they put a lot of time and a lot of sweat into this process .  so i want to thank them .  mr. chairman , i reserve the balance of my time .  mr. chairman , i would like to claim the 1 hour in support of the resolution .  mr. chairman , the reason that i introduced this resolution is because i feel very strongly that we are in a position in the house to send a very strong message of support to those who are doing the hard work in iraq , those who have done the hard work in afghanistan , and those men and women who we call our citizen soldiers , and a big debt of thanks for what they have been doing in the work that we have asked them to do .  i have been a very strong supporter of the president 's position when we went to afghanistan because i thought we needed to bring down al qaeda .  and no politician can take credit for what has taken place in afghanistan .  it has been done by the hardworking men and women who brought down al qaeda and the 25 , 000 troops that are still there .  and no politician can take credit for what has taken place in iraq .  i supported the resolution to go to iraq .  i have supported president bush on every request that he has made before this house for the money to support our troops , and now we have more than 135 , 000 troops and many men and women working in the state department and the embassy there trying to help stand up a democracy , help stand up a police force , and help bring about democracy in iraq .  if we go along with the brac commission recommendations , what we say to those hardworking men and women who have done the work that we have asked them to do is that we are thinking about , not thinking about , the brac recommendations would close the bases , close some of the guard bases , say to the citizen soldiers who have done the hard work , thanks , but we do n't need you any longer .  this is the wrong message to be sending .  these hardworking men and women have done the job that we asked them to do , and that is the reason that we have seen such great success in afghanistan and in iraq .  so i ask members today to support this resolution and send a message to those who have done the hard work that these brac recommendations are not the right approach .  when the establishment of the brac came about , it was prior to 9/11 .  it was prior to going into afghanistan , prior to going into iraq , and prior to us asking our men and women , the citizen soldiers and the full-time military , to do the hard work that they are doing .  this sends the wrong message .  this is not the message that we want to send to those that are there , that the guard bases and the air bases and the military bases that are being recommended for closure or realignment were not right .  when we are spending the kind of money that we are spending , we are not saving an awful lot through these brac recommendations .  i would submit to the house that if 9/11 had happened prior to us passing this brac , that brac would not have passed , we would not have established a commission , because we would need a very strong military and we would need these guard bases .  i also want to point out to the house that there is a federal law that has been ignored by brac and ignored by the defense department .  it is a federal law that says you can not close air and guard reserve bases without the authority of the governor of the state , and this has been ignored .  it was ignored by brac , and it was ignored by the defense department .  i think it is a law that has standing , and i think it is a law that makes an awful lot of sense .  the governors should have a say in what bases are closed .  but it was a law that was ignored .  so i say to those in the house that today is not the day to send the kind of message that we will be sending if we do not approve the resolution that was considered by the armed services committee and being considered here today .  we need to pass this resolution .  if we pass the resolution , we do send a strong message to our citizen soldiers and to the military that the work that they are doing is important , that the guard bases that they represent , that the air bases that they represent are important , and that our citizen soldiers have done the good work .  there is going to be another report coming from the defense department about realigning and about the kind of defenses that our country wants .  we do not know what that report will say , but i think it is another indication that the brac is premature .  i know what the chairman said about those who served on the brac , but i am not sure that we were quite as well served by some of those members as we could have been in some of their deliberations .  these are people that were called upon to do very difficult work .  they have completed their work , and now it is up to congress to speak .  the defense department has spoken .  brac has spoken .  the president has spoken .  now , mr. chairman , it is up to the house to speak today .  i urge the house to adopt this resolution in support of those that have done the hard work , in support of those who are citizen soldiers who come from the communities that we represent and say to them , we thank you for your hard work .  we thank you for what you have done .  we thank you for bringing down al qaeda .  we thank you for helping stand up a democracy in iraq , and we are not going to eliminate the bases from which you come or realign them .  mr. chairman , i rise today to offer h. j. res. 65 , a resolution that i introduced that would disapprove the recommendations of the 2005 defense base closure and realignment commission .  as i have stated many times since this brac round began , it is absolutely wrong that we are considering closing and realigning bases while we are at war .  we in congress spend quite a bit of time proclaiming that we are doing all we can to care for our troops .  spending billions of dollars closing and realigning bases is n't caring for our troops -- it 's just plain wrong .  congress created the brac process so that there would be a non-partisan , independent method of reviewing our military 's post-cold war excess infrastructure .  unfortunately , we live in a different world today and we face challenges that we , as a nation , could n't even imagine in the late 1980s .  there is no more `` peacetime dividend '' to be gained from closing bases .  the global war on terrorism has reached deep into our military structure and showed us that we can no longer ask our military to do more with less .  this brac commission was asked to do a very difficult task in a very uncertain environment .  early next year the department of defense will issue its latest quadrennial defense review , a document that will outline the future structure of our military as they continue their fight against terror .  we do not know what the qdr will contain , and what sort of infrastructure will be required to support it .  we are also waiting to hear the plan for bringing as many as 70 , 000 troops and their families home from europe and asia as the department reduces its cold war footprint overseas .  we do not know what that plan will contain , either , but those 70 , 000 people and their dependents will have to live and work somewhere .  the brac commission noted in its report to the president that the list of recommendations that were released by the department of defense on may 13 contained more proposed actions than all previous brac rounds combined .  in its report to the president , the brac commission was very critical of the department 's methods .  the pentagon lumped together unrelated activities into one recommendation , leaving a mess for the commission to try to untangle .  the dod proposed the consolidation of many jobs and commands that had similar names , even if they did not have the same missions .  there was apparently no interaction between the pentagon and other federal agencies that share assets and installation space , such as the department of veterans affairs and the united states coast guard , agencies that could be now left in serious financial straits if the burden of maintaining these facilities falls completely on them .  and , most striking of all , there was very little cooperation and interaction the one aspect of this year 's brac round that brought this issue home to many of my colleagues was the inclusion of air national guard bases .  i am proud to say that i represent 2 flying units of the illinois air national guard in my district , and i have seen first-hand the vital roles they play in our nation 's defense .  we ask our guard to make extraordinary sacrifices and become masters of a wide range of issues , from fighting against terrorism in iraq and afghanistan to rescuing victims and providing relief to those who are impacted by natural disasters here at home .  they do so willing and heroically , leaving behind their families and their jobs as soon as they get the call .  these guard units , under the purview of the governors of the states , are now being closed or `` enclaved '' without the consent of the governors and without title 10 of the united states code prohibits the closure or relocation of army and air national guard units without the consent of the governors of the states in which those units are located .  a number of governors have gone on record and refused to give their consent for the movement of their national guard units .  many states have filed lawsuits in federal court demanding that the pentagon and the brac commission follow federal law .  the speaker , senator durbin and i brought this provision to the attention of the secretary of defense in a letter dated march 24 .  to date , the pentagon still has not been able to answer that letter .  on july 14 , the brac commission 's own deputy general counsel issued an opinion that not only are the proposed air guard moves in violation of federal law , they may be unconstitutional .  the commission ignored its own lawyer !  this brac round much has been said about the proposed `` savings '' if this round of brac is enacted .  a figure of $ 35 billion in savings over 20 years seems to be popular in the media .  however , this $ 35 billion figure includes assumed personnel cost savings ; savings that both the brac commission and the gao have stated should not be included .  once those personnel savings are removed , the total savings falls to approximately $ 15.1 billion over the next 20 years .  we can not forget that this round of brac will cost this round of brac has strayed far from congress ' original intent .  we are n't reducing excess infrastructure to save money .  this brac is the beginning of implementing major force structure changes without the consultation of congress .  sweeping changes like this require more than just one up or down vote .  i have heard a number of my colleagues state that they will support this round of brac even though they do not agree with it , simply because this is the process that congress established .  this is not something we can close our eyes and blindly support .  we are a nation at war , the timing is wrong , the savings are not there , and guard units are being moved out of their states in violation of federal law .  the process did not work this time , and we need to stand up and say `` stop '' .  mr. chairman , i reserve the balance of my time .  mr. chairman , let me just speak for a minute or two .  i thought there were going to be some other members that wanted to speak in favor of the resolution ; but until they arrive , let me just talk for a minute or two about some of the costs .  the brac commission estimated that $ 35 billion would be saved over a 20-year period , but the $ 35 billion figure includes assumed cost savings due to military personnel actions .  both the brac commission and the gao believe the military personnel savings should be excluded from the overall savings figure .  once those personnel savings are removed , the overall savings fall to approximately $ 15 billion over 20 years .  there is a one-time up-front cost of $ 21 billion to implement the brac round , and the dod claimed that the savings from military personnel are not savings at all .  these costs do not disappear ; they simply shift from one base to another , and those folks are still in the military , and we still have to pay for them .  for some air force recommendations , the military personnel cost savings represents 90 percent of the total savings .  and in the case of the air national guard end strength , it remained mostly the same .  obviously , no savings come from simply moving positions around the country .  if we keep the same number of personnel , dod spending levels will not actually be reduced .  the brac commission concludes that dod savings estimates were vastly overstated and overestimated .  and there is also a quote from the commission on page 330 of their report : `` in fact , the commission is concerned that there is a likelihood that the 2005 brac round could produce only marginal net savings over the 20-year period. '' mr. chairman , i reserve the balance of my time .  mr. chairman , i thank the gentleman from mississippi for his very articulate statement .  mr. chairman , i believe i have the right to close .  i have no other speakers , and if these gentlemen are ready , when they finish , i will close .  mr. chairman , i yield myself whatever time i have remaining .  mr. chairman , let me just pick up on a couple of the people that have spoken .  i want to pick up on a point that mr. delay  made .  he has an air guard unit returning to ellington air force base to a slap in the face , to essentially being told , you have done great work , thanks for what you did in iraq ; oh , by the way , we are closing your base .  now , what kind of a message is that ?  that was my point earlier on in my opening statement .  we owe it to the people .  i ask members to consider this : to the people who are doing the hard work in iraq , the people that did the hard work in afghanistan , this is not the way to say to them , job well done .  it is not the way to say to them , you did a great job in standing up for democracy in afghanistan and doing the hard work in iraq .  and , oh , by the way , there is no base to come back to , because your unit is being eliminated .  is that the message we want to send to the people who do the hard work , to the 130 , 000 , 140 , 000 people now serving in iraq , the citizen soldiers that have left their jobs and their families and left their communities ?  i do not think so .  the point that mr. taylor  made , why not give congress the responsibility , the armed services committee the responsibility ; why lay it off on somebody else ?  we should not be doing that .  this is our responsibility .  that is why we are elected , to make these decisions .  the report is flawed .  you can say all you want about the great work that was done .  i know people that serve on the base closing commission , and i know they spend a lot of time , but this work is flawed .  this is a flawed report .  this is our opportunity in the house to speak up and speak out .  the defense department has had their say .  the president had his say .  the brac commission had their say .  now it is the house 's turn to say to the hard-working citizen soldiers , we appreciate your work , we are going to stand with you , we are going to allow these bases to remain open , we are going to vote for the resolution that says that this brac should not stand , that these recommendations should not stand .  that is what the house should be saying today .  i hope the majority of members will do that .  i mentioned earlier , there is a law on the books , passed by congress , that says that you can not close air and guard bases unless you get the authority from the governors .  we even had a report from one of the people that was working for brac that this law has standing .  the brac ignored this .  the defense department has ignored us on this .  we should not be doing this .  this is the wrong message .  this is the wrong idea to send to our country , to send to the people who are doing the work and continue to do the work .  as i said earlier , i have supported the president and this administration and the secretary of defense , who is a friend of mine from illinois , in everything they have wanted to do in afghanistan and iraq .  i know a lot of members have .  the majority of the membership of this house has .  now we ought to say to them , we do not agree with your recommendations .  we do not agree that we should be realigning bases , turning people away , turning out bases and shutting down bases where the good work has been done .  so based on that argument , based on the flawed brac report , based on a law that is on the books , a federal law that says you can not close these air and guard bases without the authority of the governor , i ask members to speak up today , to be a voice for the people , to be a voice for the military , to be a voice that says , this brac is not right , and i urge members to vote for the resolution .  mr. speaker , i demand a recorded vote .  mr. chairman , i thank the gentleman for yielding me this time .  in one of the few times since 1995 when we arrived in the house together , i am going to disagree with the gentleman from illinois and will vote against this resolution today .  i want to talk a little bit about the cleveland experience and then the process and how we moved forward , which has been addressed by the gentleman from ohio ( mr. kucinich )  and the gentlewoman from ohio ( mrs. jones )  .  i understand why the gentleman from illinois has brought this resolution here today because i remember the shudder that can go through a community when 1 , 200 jobs are being discussed , in some cases more , some cases less .  in cleveland 's case , they were jobs that pay an average of $ 54 , 000 a year .  you are not just talking about the loss of the tax base .  you are also talking about individuals who have made lives , whether it be in cleveland , indiana , colorado , missouri or other parts of the country .  i had one grandmother who came up to me in lake county , ohio , after the decision was made to keep the facility open in cleveland , and she said i want to thank you because it means my grandchildren will not be going to some faraway place .  i can understand the shudder , and as the gentleman from colorado said , maybe we should reexamine how we engage in this .  but i want to talk about the process .  the process , although it was nerve-racking , was also healthy .  it was healthy because it gave me the opportunity to work together with the gentlewoman from ohio ( mrs. jones )  and the gentleman from ohio ( mr. kucinich )  .  i am republican and they are democrats , and we all put our shoulders to the same wheel to get the same result .  it was good to see the labor community and the business community in cleveland all come together , because sometimes they have disagreements .  it was encouraging to see the leadership of the city of cleveland come together , with mayor campbell and others all working towards achieving this result .  from bad news , good news took place .  but as the gentleman from new york ( mr. boehlert )  said , it was not because the gentlewoman from ohio ( mrs. jones )  and the gentleman from ohio ( mr. kucinich )  and i are so powerful .  this was a process done on facts .  anthony principi and the brac commissioners and the professional staff , and hats off to marilyn wasleski in particular , they took the time to look at the numbers and figure out that when the pentagon came up with its original proposal , they had the numbers wrong .  just one small example : they overvalued the square footage that was being paid to the general services administration so cleveland did not score as well .  it would have been easy to say we are not going to pay attention to that , but the brac commissioners paid attention .  they paid attention to the arguments and observations ; and at the end of the day , cleveland did not win because cleveland had more political muscle , cleveland won on the facts and on objective standards .  another thing that impressed me , the brac commission not only looked at the numbers , they looked at the human cost .  they considered the value of the 1 , 100 people that work in that building , the celebrezze federal building in the city of cleveland , and they said to those federal employees , you have value , you have worth .  they recognized what they have accomplished in becoming centers of excellence , and they were rewarded for that .  that is exactly what we would want to encourage .  the last thing i want to say , we have some force protection issues , antiterrorism protection for federal properties are coming up in 2009 .  i understand that when it comes to the men and women who are serving in the active military , but the cleveland facility is made up primarily of accountants .  and i want to protect our men and women in uniform , but the folks in the cleveland building are accountants , by and large .  and i try to read all of the chatter from al qaeda and everywhere else , and i do not hear a lot of chatter about taking out the accountants .  i would argue that our civilian department of defense employees are valuable , but they are no more valuable than the people who work for the social security administration or the u.s. marshal 's office .  before we make sure that we fortify and penetrate all of these buildings for dod civilian employees ' work , we should look at force protection for everybody who works for the federal government .  mr. chairman , i stand in support of house joint resolution 65 , disapproving the recommendations of the base realignment and closure commission .  this will be my first vote against a brac list , and it is not a vote i take lightly .  i support the brac process as a whole as a reasonable and apolitical method for evaluating our nation 's defense infrastructure needs , and recognize the necessity of this first brac round in a decade .  but while i salute the hard work of the brac commission members in their deliberations and recognize the difficulty of their task , this brac round took place in the context of flawed methodology as regarded air national guard bases .  it was my expectation that the department of defense would solicit input from all relevant sources in evaluating our air national guard requirements -- most importantly , the adjutant general of each state .  but at no time in the pentagon 's development of its air force brac recommendations did it ask the adjutant general of ohio or any of the other 53 adjutants general for input .  i find this shocking , considering that the army consulted the adjutants general when crafting its recommendations -- and considering that 37 of the 42 air force brac proposals involved air national guard units .  for the past 24 years , i have had the privilege of representing the guardsmen of one of those units : the 179th airlift wing of the ohio air national guard , located at mansfield lahm airport .  the 179th has been a vital part of mansfield and richland county since 1948 , with an annual economic impact of roughly $ 70 million .  members of the airlift wing have served more than 195 , 000 days just since 9/11 in support of homeland defense and the global war on terror .  more recently , the guardsmen of the 179th have flown sorties to the gulf coast region , delivering much-needed supplies and transporting hundreds of troops to assist those affected by hurricane katrina .  relief missions such as this are nothing new for the men and women of the 179th , who have answered the call during past hurricane relief missions in florida and other states , and have assisted with vital defense operations in iraq , saudi arabia , afghanistan , kosovo , and elsewhere .  i was disappointed , therefore , at the inclusion of the 179th on the pentagon 's proposed closure list in may .  as i said in a letter to president bush last month in support of the 179th , the unit has always stood ready to accept any flying assignment , and represents a wealth of expertise and professionalism that ohio and the nation can ill afford to lose .  contrary to national trends , the 179th has consistently excelled in recruiting and retention , currently standing at 105 percent of assigned strength .  mansfield draws from a rich recruiting base , boasting the best personnel strength figures of any air national guard c-130 unit .  the men and women of the 179th are highly experienced , with an average of more than 12 years of service ; mansfield 's aircrews have an average of 16 years of military aviation experience .  in just the last few years , all mansfield aircrew members have flown combat sorties in the middle east and asia , and have received 116 air medals for their bravery , courage , and skill .  in its final deliberations , the brac commission found that closing mansfield was `` not supportable '' and recommended instead that a `` contiguous enclave '' be established at mansfield lahm .  the commission further acknowledged that the air force did not adequately consult with governors and state adjutants general with respect to its air guard recommendations .  had there been consultation , better decisions could have been made about air guard infrastructure in view of our national defense and homeland security needs .  in short , the air force would have done well to follow the army 's brac model , which stood as an example of good consultation among parties .  when the joint systems manufacturing center -- located in lima in my congressional district -- was placed on the brac list with a recommendation to reduce manufacturing space by 27 percent , top army officials working on the brac staff made themselves available to meet with representatives of jsmc and the community .  the jsmc delegation explained that such a reduction would impede operations at the plant , resulting in a higher cost to the government for the weapons systems the plant produces .  as a result of these discussions , the brac staff recommended that the commission remove the jsmc proposal from its final list , which it did .  the army 's deliberations on jsmc were an ideal example of how the brac process works well : when information is shared and all relevant parties are consulted .  even with the commission 's decision to reverse the jsmc proposal -- and even with the partial reversal of the mansfield decision and the encouraging possibilities for obtaining a new mission for the more than 1 , 000 guardsmen of the 179th -- i will vote for this resolution of disapproval .  by statute , the purpose of brac is to reduce excess infrastructure .  the current brac round , though , is being used to implement operational policies and transfer mansfield 's c-130s from the guard to the active and reserve forces .  such complex issues should not be handled within the brac procedure .  although i strongly oppose the transfer of mansfield 's planes , i welcome the opportunity to work with the department of defense and state officials to obtain a new mission for mansfield , should the brac recommendations be upheld .  in just the last 8 years , more than $ 20 million has been invested in the 179th 's facilities at mansfield lahm .  thanks to the efforts of mansfield mayor lydia reid and other local officials , the city has made 163 acres adjacent to the airport available for guard expansion or joint service activities .  this significant investment and possibility for expansion should make mansfield an even more attractive site for locating a new air-based mission .  nonetheless , given mansfield 's solid track record as a c-130 unit and its many contributions to our nation and world , i oppose the transfer of its planes .  at a time when our troops are already stressed by operational tempos , and when our national recruiting and retention rates are reaching record lows , i fear any disruption to our well-equipped and well-manned guard units .  our planes are only as good as the people who maintain and fly them , and our country can not afford to lose their skills .  mr. chairman , i thank the distinguished gentleman from colorado for the time .  first , let me thank the brac commission head anthony principi and all of the panel members for their hard work for listening to all of us , both at the regional hearings and in person , and with the staff and the department of defense who worked with so many of us in these very difficult decisions .  i rise in opposition to my colleague from illinois 's resolution , but i share some of his concerns .  i would like to talk about a few of these .  in the state of indiana , the previous round of brac , i was legislative director for the junior senator from indiana when we watched all of our active military bases get wiped out in the state of indiana , one of the number one recruiting states in the united states .  my hometown in fort wayne , indiana , is one of the major centers of defense electronics in the united states with itt aerospace , with raytheon , defense electronics based there making many highly classified electronics , defense systems , with general dynamics with a huge facility there , with bae systems with a huge facility there , with ussi with a huge facility there , with northrop grumman with a large and expanding facility there .  we have defense electronics and a very patriotic , one of the highest , if not the highest , congressional districts in america in military recruiting for army , navy , air force and all of the various guard and reserve groups .  we have an air guard base there in fort wayne , indiana , that is gaining under this process .  it was a very difficult process as to how we deal with the guard and particularly the air guard , and it was a very stiff competition with the gentleman from illinois ' air base and the air base in terre haute , and we can argue the relative merits .  what i heard at the hearing is , look , i am very proud of our air guard .  they are way over .  they have the highest percent retention , actually overretention at 116 percent of their recruiting quota .  they have won national outstanding unit award three times by the air force and recipient of the national guard number one air guard unit in the united states .  but i also heard from the people in the capital region air guard unit and the people in the terre haute guard unit .  in fact , they were all high in recruitment , and they were all high in national awards .  the problem is the air force is cutting .  the f-16s are aging and declining in quality and disappearing from our defense system , and the air force plans are to reduce the number of fighter planes by two-thirds .  so where is this going to leave the air guard and the reserve , and how do we work this through when we head into a brac process ?  i am very concerned where we are headed long term with this , not just this brac process but the next brac process .  it is clear we are leaning heavily on guard and reserve .  are we going to the point where guard and reserve and the air force are only going to be at active bases , and where does that leave the heartland of the united states as we move everything to the coast ?  where does it leave us in homeland security ?  the gentleman from illinois ( mr. lahood )  raised a very difficult and interesting question that worked through the courts in this process , that it is pretty clear that the department of defense can not close an air guard base , but they can move the airplanes .  so we had one court ruling in pennsylvania that said they could not close the base , but we have other rulings that said they could move the airplanes .  what exactly is the role of an air guard base if it does not have any airplanes , and how are we going to work this through ?  i believe there will be other types of defense systems in homeland security that hopefully will be located in terre haute and will be located in springfield , illinois , very important cities to homeland security and our national defense .  we have to work this through .  i believe the brac commission made the right decisions , but this does not necessarily give us much guidance as to where we are headed and how we are going to integrate and maintain the defense structure we have in the united states with our air guard , army guard , and all of our reserve units around the country if we do not have an adequate base structure , if we do not have adequate training places and ways to do this .  i hope we can find , in addition to the fighter planes that are located in fort wayne , and the expansion of our base , for which i am very thankful , ways to work with springfield , illinois , with terre haute , indiana , and other bases around the united states because we need all of those pilots .  we need all of those guard and reserve people around the united states because we are strapped very thin .  i hope this brac commission report , while i strongly support it , will also be a launching point as to how we are going to work and build and keep this very diverse armed forces system in the united states .  mr. chairman , i rise today in strong support of the resolution and join the growing chorus of the members of congress who are coming down to the floor today disappointed in the recommendations of the base realignment closure commission .  i can not understand why , in a time that we are fighting a global war on terror , a war where we are actively engaged on two fronts and obligated to also increase domestic defense against terrorism here at home , the department of defense has suggested , in fact recommended , that we close bases across the nation .  more troubling is the fact that the department of defense has moved ahead in this brac round by applying a cold war model to a post-cold war security environment .  remember , the department of homeland security has not been consulted , mr. chairman , on the impact these base closures pose to our domestic security .  mr. chairman , the world has changed enormously since the last brac round .  our threats are not static as they once were .  today we face an asymmetric threat from an enemy that knows no borders nor rules of warfare .  the threat of international terrorism requires us to have the best tools available to respond to threats on our allies , our interests , and our homeland at a moment 's notice , and i am afraid that the current brac recommendations hamper our ability to do so .  take , for instance , the recommendation that the largest joint reserve base on the east coast should be closed .  the willow grove joint reserve base directly borders my district in pennsylvania .  hundreds of my constituents rely on that base for their national guard training .  thousands of my constituents rely on the customer traffic the servicemen and women stationed at willow grove provide for their local businesses that surround the base .  and , on a larger scale , both my constituents and americans from new york to baltimore benefit from the base 's protection .  willow grove 's strategic position allows its air assets to protect the ports of philadelphia , wilmington , and baltimore .  it serves as a fema alternative site , providing a staging ground so federal resources can be distributed in the event of a natural disaster or a terrorist attack .  militarily the base has a great track record of achievement by training combined arms jointly for over a decade , practically setting the standard for interoperability between branches of the armed services .  i urge my colleagues to support this resolution .  mr. speaker , i am planning to speak in opposition to the bill , but i thought that i heard the gentleman say a minute ago that he planned to oppose it .  is that correct ?  mr. speaker , i thank the gentleman from massachusetts for yielding .  i rise in opposition to the bill .  we passed a bipartisan campaign finance reform act 3 or 4 years ago to close huge loopholes in campaign spending , including the soft money loophole .  now the internet is becoming an increasingly important medium for campaign spending and advocacy .  according to some surveys , 37 percent of the adult population and 61 percent of americans use the internet to determine how they would vote in an election .  now i do agree with my friends on the other side of the aisle that , had this bill gone through the regular order , we probably could have worked out some compromises that would have protected the rights of individuals and bloggers and so forth , but we do not have that ability at this point , so it is either an up or down vote on a complete exemption .  in the absence of this compromise , we have to depend on the fec for regulation .  because if we do not and if this bill passes , we will in effect have an exemption to bcra that will allow for unlimited advertising and advocacy over the internet .  i do not believe that bloggers or individuals will ever be fined by the federal election commission .  i urge my colleagues to vote against this bill when it comes up later today .  mr. speaker , today i rise in support of h.r. 1606 , legislation that will exempt blogs , e-mail and other online speech from campaign finance laws .  when congress passed campaign finance reform in 2002 , the legislation did not identify political speech over the internet as a target of the new regulations .  the proponents of the law argued its intent was to restrict money not speech .  but in april a federal judge sided with campaign finance reform zealots and ruled the fec can not completely exempt online speech from the requirements of the campaign finance reform law .  i 'm not here to revisit arguments for or against campaign finance reform .  i 'm here today to call for congress to recognize the internet as a safe harbor for political speech .  everyday thousands of bloggers register displeasure or support with congress , the supreme court , the president , even their local elected officials .  but now , we are on the cusp of a new fec regulation that could stifle free expression .  without congressional action today , arbitrary restrictions would be imposed on blogs and other web content deterring participation from the very segment of our population that we want to encourage to be politically active .  thomas jefferson was right when he said : `` the basis of our government being the opinion of the people , the very first object should be to keep that right. '' mr. speaker , this legislation will protect , in its infancy , what could be a powerful medium ( or media ) for the opinion of the people to be heard .  the way our nation communicates today is almost unrecognizable for those of us that were in washington , dc during the 1970s .  we have seen the innovation and democratization of the internet in just the last decade .  this legislation will promote democracy and shutter those who intend to manage through regulation this amazing engine of communication and knowledge .  the internet , through such safe havens of individual expression and opinion like blogs , has put the power in the hands of the people , where it truly belongs , precisely where thomas jefferson wanted it .  i urge my colleagues to support this legislation and thank the gentleman from texas ( mr. hensarling ) for introducing this important bill .  mr. speaker , i thank the gentleman for yielding me time .  mr. speaker , i rise today in strong opposition to h.r. 1606 , the online freedom of information act .  this controversial bill purports to protect the freedom of speech of internet bloggers but instead creates a major internet loophole for soft money in our federal campaign finance laws .  these are exactly the soft money expenditures the bipartisan campaign reform act of 1992 , bcra , sought to prohibit .  internet advertising should be no exception and ought to conform to the same rules as those governing other media .  h.r. 1606 is the wrong way to address the issue of bloggers and will only lead to new corrupting soft money scandals and campaigns .  the internet has increasingly and rightly been used as a powerful political tool in recent elections , but it is negligent that we would permit it to be a safe haven from our campaign finance laws .  under h.r. 1606 , house members and other federal candidates would be permitted to control the spending of soft money -- provided by corporations , labor unions and wealthy individuals -- to buy internet advertisements to support their campaigns .  state political parties would also be allowed to spend soft money on internet advertising to attack and promote federal candidates .  and , these contributions would never be disclosed in campaign finance records .  if the congress is really concerned with protecting internet bloggers , i urge consideration of legislation introduced yesterday by my colleagues representatives shays and meehan , which reaffirms that bloggers communicating on their websites are not covered by campaign finance laws without allowing members of congress and other federal candidates to use corrupting soft money to support their campaigns .  i urge my colleagues on both sides of the aisle to vote no on the online freedom of speech act .  mr. speaker , as i recall , it was the gentlewoman from california ( ms. zoe lofgren )  who thought this would be an appropriate procedure to bring it to the floor on suspension .  so there was no abuse of power .  this is strongly supported by both parties .  i anticipate it will pass today .  otherwise , we will take a rule , and we will do it the regular way .  mr. speaker , i know the theme of the minority is the republicans abuse power and they are corrupt ; but i think this example is absolutely ludicrous , given that it was recommended by a prominent democrat member of the house administration committee who happens to support the legislation .  and she prudently recommended it because at the time it seemed like it was a relatively noncontroversial idea , supported by most of us .  i would venture to guess that the outcome will be just as she assumed , that it will pass by the two-thirds vote required .  i just can not sit here and listen to this recitation when it is so unfair , given the facts of this particular case .  mr. speaker , the constitution is clear , `` congress shall make no law abridging the freedom of speech. '' unfortunately , the u.s. supreme court ruled to the contrary that , in this instance , in political speech congress may abridge the freedom of speech and it may do so under the guise of preventing corruption or the appearance thereof in campaign activities .  i disagree with that decision , but the supreme court has spoken for now , so we must live with it .  i am grateful to my colleagues on the other side of the aisle who at least feel , as concerns the internet , that there are compelling policy reasons why that should not be subject to this kind of regulation .  heaven help the average american if they fall under a regulation similar to what any candidate must now undergo for federal office because that would basically mean that you would have to check with your accountant and check with your attorney before you engage in the internet communication that might at all be perhaps close to whatever the line would be .  in other words , it would have a chilling impact on people 's exercise of what we believe should be their free speech rights .  this rise of the internet is one of the greatest democratic , with a small d , trends the world has ever known .  anybody with access to a computer can communicate throughout the world his or her views .  why would we seek to regulate such an activity and to place this chilling impact out there ?  i commend , by the way , the fec .  they correctly decided not to regulate the internet .  unfortunately , the big government campaign reformers found that intolerable , filed suit in federal court and were vindicated with the judge ruling that , indeed , the law required the fec to regulate .  in the absence of our passing this kind of legislation , the internet will be regulated .  mr. speaker , we must put an end to this now before it spreads out of control .  please vote yes for the hensarling bill .  i am so grateful the gentleman introduced it , and i commend him for it .  please support freedom of speech .  the online freedom of speech act is what this legislation is called .  now is the time to draw a clean , clear , bright line and say if you are engaging in speech over the internet you do not have to check with your lawyer or your accountant .  you are a free american , and you have the opportunity to engage in free speech over the internet .  vote yes .  mr. speaker , i move to suspend the rules and pass the bill ( h.r. 1606 ) to amend the federal election campaign act of 1971 to exclude communications over the internet from the definition of public communication .  mr. speaker , i ask unanimous consent that all members may have 5 legislative days within which to revise and extend their remarks and include extraneous material on h.r. 1606 .  mr. speaker , i yield myself such time as i may consume .  mr. speaker , the advent of the internet age has brought about a host of new ways for citizens to participate in the political arena .  web sites , e-mail , and blogging have provided new avenues for political activists to reach out to potential voters , to raise issue awareness , to solicit contributions , and to mobilize the get-out-the-vote efforts .  the internet has also generated a more widespread flow of news information through not only mainstream media sources but also independent web sites and blogs .  most importantly , it has created a completely new opportunity for all citizens to exercise their right to free speech by opining on the most important issues of the day as they see them , as the citizens see them .  unfortunately , mr. speaker , all of this activity is actually under attack today .  when congress passed the bipartisan campaign finance reform act in 2002 , the law apparently was unclear on what impact it would have on political speech on the internet .  the federal election commission interpreted the law to say that congress did not intend to regulate the internet when it passed bcra .  the bill 's sponsors disagreed , and they sued the fec in the courts .  a recent appellate court decision will force the fec to implement a rule that would cover internet communications .  if the congress does not act now and make it clear that it does not want the internet to be regulated , the fec will adopt a new rule to regulate the internet ; and by passing h.r. 1606 , also known as the online freedom of speech act , congress can prevent this from happening .  h.r. 1606 , introduced by the gentleman from texas ( mr. hensarling )  , amends the federal election campaign act of 1971 to exclude internet communications from the definition of `` public communication , '' thus exempting web sites , blogs , and online advertisements from federal elections commission , fec , regulation .  this bill has very , very strong bipartisan support .  in testimony before the fec and before the committee on house administration , both liberal and conservative bloggers expressed their support for this exemption .  senate minority leader reid has introduced a companion bill in the u.s. senate and written to the fec to express his belief that the internet should not be regulated .  the regulations proposed by the fec could limit the ability of online activists to talk to campaigns , to give discounts on advertisements , to spend money maintaining their site , to link to candidates ' sites , to advocate the election of a candidate , or to send political e-mails .  the fec would potentially grant some bloggers and online publications what is known as the `` media exemption , '' which would allow these bloggers to operate free of fec regulation like any standard newspaper or news program .  however , the rules were very unclear about how the fec would determine who qualified for the exemption .  potentially , the fec 's rulings could become content-based restrictions on speech and on free speech .  as we consider this legislation , mr. speaker , we must remember that the internet is not like traditional forms of media .  unlike television and radio , activists do not require large sums of money to post their message on the internet .  also , the number of people reached and the success of communication are not directly linked to the amount of money that is spent .  in addition , the internet is not an invasive medium .  in other words , the recipients of communication are exposed to the communication only after they take deliberate and affirmative steps to find a particular web site .  further , the internet has generated a surge in grassroots involvement in the political process .  mr. speaker , historically , congress has regulated political speech only where it has the potential to cause corruption or the appearance of corruption .  there has been no demonstration that the growth of the internet has had a corrupting influence on politics .  there is , however , ample evidence that the internet has had a positive effect on our political system by encouraging young people , a whole new generation of people , to get involved in our political process .  any internet regulations would be complicated and difficult for a lay person to understand .  bloggers and other online activists should not have to worry about accidentally running afoul of campaign finance laws when they are expressing their own opinions on the internet .  regulatory proponents claim regulations are necessary to reduce the influence of wealthy interests .  in fact , mr. speaker , these complex regulations , if enacted , would actually increase the influence of big money and politics , because then only the wealthy could afford to hire election attorneys to be certain that they were abiding by these very complicated regulations .  the committee on house administration , under chairman ney 's leadership , had a hearing on this topic back last september ; and , at that hearing , several members of congress and of the committee , including myself , actually suggested that the congress needed to step into this process to clarify congress ' intent on this issue instead of leaving it up to federal agencies and the court system .  congress began this discussion by passing bcra .  by debating and voting on this bill today , the house will clarify once and for all its intent on this issue .  mr. speaker , i reserve the balance of my time .  mr. speaker , i yield myself 15 seconds to respond to the gentleman .  mr. speaker , we are actually being accused of abuse of power , as i understand it , for bringing up the senate minority leader 's companion bill .  mr. speaker , i reserve the balance of my time .  mr. speaker , i reserve the balance of my time .  mr. speaker , i urge my colleagues to oppose h.r. 1606 , the so-called online freedom of speech act .  the legislation will exempt the internet from campaign finance laws , thus opening up a major loophole for unlimited union dues money , corporate treasury money and large individual donations to once again corrupt federal elections .  i understand that many web loggers are concerned that somehow campaign finance law will restrict their speech , and i believe allowing bloggers the assurance that they will not be so burdened is something that we can ensure .  unfortunately , h.r. 1606 goes far beyond exempting bloggers and allows federal candidates and political parties to again make use of soft money in federal campaigns .  that is why marty meehan and i introduced legislation that would preserve the soft money ban and protect bloggers from unnecessary regulation .  because h.r. 1606 was considered under suspension of the rules , though , we were not allowed to offer this alternative approach .  that is why we must defeat this bill .  if this law were to pass , a member of congress could simply go to a large donor , corporation or union and control their spending of $ 1 million in soft money to pay for political advertising all over the internet .  this is precisely the type of behavior prevented when congress passed the bipartisan campaign reform act in 2002 .  by all accounts , the law is working -- despite concerns about the law being the death knell of the parties , the parties were strengthened as they raised more in hard money in 2004 than they raised in hard and soft money combined in 2002 and greatly expanded their donor base .  once again , i urge my colleagues to oppose h.r. 1606 and oppose the return of corrupting soft money to our political process .  mr. speaker , if the gentleman will yield , i will tell my colleagues that the state i represent is nearly 3 , 000 miles away , and we are having a very important election in our state .  i have voted by absentee ballot .  i did that just this week and sent my ballot in .  we have a great deal of work to do , not only on tuesday but next week , so we will be meeting here , and we have the items that i mentioned , the measures that will be considered under suspension , we have the very important secure access to justice and court protection act that needs to be considered , and we just have to proceed with our work .  so let me say that we do want every member to participate in those elections , but i suspect that , in light of the fact that we will have so much work to do here , that members should plan to be in washington during the day on tuesday .  mr. speaker , if the gentleman will yield , as i said in my remarks earlier today , the chairman of the appropriations committee , the gentleman from california ( mr. lewis )  , has done an absolutely phenomenonal job in moving these measures through .  as you know , we have just voted on the foreign operations appropriations bill conference report , and we have three conference groups that are continuing to meet on energy and water , the science , state , justice , and commerce appropriation bill , and the military quality of life appropriations conference report .  from the conversation i have had with the chairman of the committee , it is his hope that we have those three measures up for consideration at some point next week .  all three of those bills that i mentioned , the energy and water conference report and the science , state , justice , and commerce conference report , and military quality of life , they are all in conference as we speak .  it is our hope that those conferences will be completed and those conference reports will be filed in the house .  we can not anticipate exactly when their work will be completed .  we just want it to happen as expeditiously as possible .  mr. speaker , if the gentleman will yield , as i think the gentleman heard in my announcement , i announced that it is our anticipation , we anticipate that we will consider what we call the deficit reduction act of 2005 , and it is a measure which we will be working on next week .  late next week or the middle to the latter part of next week , we anticipate a vote here in the house on that very important measure that is designed to try and reduce the deficit and reform government and ensure that we can do the very important work that the american people sent us here to do .  mr. speaker , i will say that this very important legislation , which i personally support , is at this moment being discussed by the leadership of the financial services committee .  they are working with the department of the treasury and members in the leadership of the banking committee on the other side of the aisle , and we do hope very much that we will be able to put together a legislative package that can be considered before that very important december 31 date to which my friend referred .  mr. speaker , if the gentleman will yield , i would say that we are taking that into consideration .  we do not have it scheduled at this moment , but i appreciate my friend 's raising this issue , and we will certainly take it under advisement and look at your recommendation , i hope from your perspective , favorably .  yes , mr. chairman , it applies only to federal officials who will represent the united states of america in a court of law , the voice of the federal government in a court of law .  mr. chairman , on that specific question , i can not answer `` yes '' to or `` no '' to .  i am working with a piece of language i believe in , and i have not looked a federal official in the eye that specifically asked me .  i have been informed that , yes , we have federal officials that have asked for this legislation .  i would point out that it is not mandatory that they accept carrying a firearm ; it is their option that they exercise under the regulation provided by the attorney general .  it is subject to training and regulation as prescribed by the attorney general .  mr. chairman , i rise in support of h.r. 1751 and in support of the dedicated public servants working in our criminal justice system .  the very nature of their work brings them in contact with dangerous criminals on a daily basis .  after conviction , some of these criminals seek revenge against the prosecutors and judges who put them in prison .  as unfortunate as it is , we must do more to protect those in the justice system who work to protect all of us .  we all remember the brutal murders of michael lefkow and donna humphrey , the husband and mother of u.s. district judge joan lefkow .  the initial investigation focused on a likely suspect , white supremacist matthew hale , who had been convicted of soliciting judge lefkow 's murder only a year before .  as it turns out , hale was not behind the murders , but another disgruntled individual with a history in front of judge lefkow was .  bart ross , a plaintiff in a medical malpractice case judge lefkow dismissed , wrote a letter to a chicago television station admitting he killed michael lefkow and donna humphrey and that his target had been the judge .  included in the note was a `` hit list '' of others he felt had wronged him , many of whom were involved in his medical malpractice case .  one of the individuals on the `` hit list '' is a constituent of mine and while we are thankful he and his family are safe , it is a chilling reminder that the security of judicial officials can not be taken for granted .  this tragic case is just one example of the danger prosecutors and judges can face simply for doing their jobs .  even though matthew hale and his white supremacist group were not responsible for the letkow murders , they were vocal in their praise for the killings on the internet .  the fact remains that judges , prosecutors , and their families are often targeted and they can be in danger wherever they go , even in their own homes .  mr. chairman , i support this legislation and i believe the congress should do all it can to protect judges and their families and enhance courthouse security .  mr. chairman , i yield myself such time as i may consume .  mr. chairman , i rise in support of h.r. 1751 , the secure access to justice and court protection act of 2005 .  violent attacks and intimidation against courthouse personnel and law enforcement officers present a threat to the integrity of the justice system that congress has a duty to confront .  the murder of family members of united states district judge joan lefkow , the brutal slayings of judge rowland barnes , his court reporter , his deputy sheriff , and a federal officer in atlanta , and the cold-blooded shootings outside the tyler , texas , courthouse all underscore the need to provide better protection for judges , courthouse personnel , witnesses , law enforcement and their family members .  this bill is an important bipartisan measure introduced by the gentleman from texas ( mr. gohmert )  and the gentleman from new york ( mr. weiner )  .  it will help address the problem of violence in and around our nation 's courthouses .  statistics show that aggravated assaults against police officers are a serious national problem .  according to the bureau of justice statistics , 52 law enforcement officers were killed in the united states in 2002 and 56 were killed in 2001 .  from 1994 through 2003 a total of 616 law enforcement officers were feloniously killed in the line of duty .  approximately 100 of these officers were murdered after being entrapped or ambushed by their killers .  these attacks are simply unacceptable .  the lives of judicial personnel are also at great risk .  according to the administrative office of the united states courts , federal judges receive nearly 700 threats a year and several federal judges require security personnel to protect them and their families from terrorist associates , violent gangs , drug organizations and disgruntled litigants .  the intimidation of judges directly assaults the impartial administration of justice our constitution demands .  court witnesses are also at risk .  threats and intimidation toward witnesses continue to grow , particularly at the state and local level .  in 1996 , a witness intimidation study by the justice department included that witness intimidation is a pervasive and insidious problem .  no part of the country is spared and no witness can feel entirely free or safe .  prosecutors interviewed in this study estimated that witness intimidation occurs in 75 to 100 percent of the violent crimes committed in some gang-dominated neighborhoods .  this bill passed the committee on the judiciary by an overwhelming vote of 26-5 .  the legislation enhances criminal penalties for assaults and the killing of federal , state and local judges , witnesses , law enforcement officers , courthouse personnel and their family members .  it provides grants to state and local courts to improve security services and improves the ability of the united states marshals to protect the federal judiciary .  the bill also prohibits public disclosure , on the internet and other public sources , of personal information about judges , law enforcement , victims and witnesses to protect federal judges and prosecutors from organized efforts to harass and intimidate them through false filings of liens and other encumbrances against their property and improves coordination between the marshals and the federal judges .  the bill also contains vital security measures for federal prosecutors handling dangerous trials against terrorists , drug organizations , and other organized crime figures .  finally , the bill incorporates key provisions of the peace officer justice act , legislation introduced by the gentleman from california ( mr. dreier )  , to bring justice to those who murder law enforcement personnel and flee to foreign nations to escape prosecution and justice in this country .  the bill is supported by those on the front lines of our criminal justice system and is backed by the conference of chief justices and the conference of state court administrators ; the federal bar association ; the federal criminal investigators association ; and the fraternal order of police ; the national association of assistant u.s. attorneys ; the international union of police associations afl-cio ; the major county sheriffs ' association ; the national law enforcement council ; the national sheriffs ' association ; the national troopers coalition ; the international association of campus law enforcement administrators ; and the american federation of state , county and municipal employees .  when judges , prosecutors , law enforcement and courthouse personnel speak in a clear and unanimous voice , we have a duty to listen and to act to give their members the tools and resources necessary for their protection .  mr. chairman , congress has an obligation to ensure that america 's courts and the brave men and women of law enforcement render justice without fear of assault or retaliation .  judges , witnesses , courthouse personnel , and law enforcement officers must operate without fear in order to administer the law without bias .  i urge my colleagues to strengthen the integrity of america 's justice system and the security of court and law enforcement personnel by supporting this vital and bipartisan legislation .  mr. chairman , i reserve the balance of my time .  mr. chairman , i demand a recorded vote .  mr. speaker , reserving the right to object , the majority was recently , within the last 2 or 3 minutes , given a copy of this motion to recommit .  this comes as a complete surprise .  this is not the way to legislate , mr. speaker .  i object .  mr. speaker , i rise in opposition to the motion to recommit .  mr. speaker , this motion is offered by a member who stated to the speaker that he is opposed to this bill .  he is opposed to providing additional security to judges , to prosecutors , to witnesses , to victims and their family members .  he is opposed to a bill that has been worked on significantly on a bipartisan basis .  and he has stated that he is opposed to doing something where there is a crying need , given the threats and the murders in courthouses all around the country , and not just federal courthouses but state and local courthouses as well .  now , what does he propose to do in the motion to recommit ?  he proposes to add additional criminal penalties for things that are already criminal .  and all that does is to confuse juries , to confuse prosecutors , to confuse people who are attempting to do business with the government .  profiteering in an illegal manner is already criminal under the united states code .  we do not need to confuse the issue with an additional statutes .  and we do not need to defeat this bill by this motion that has been offered by several proclaimed opponents of this bill .  the bill is a good one .  in order to get it passed and signed into law to protect the judicial branch and those who do business and work for it , vote this silly motion down and pass the bill as has been worked out on a bipartisan basis .  mr. speaker , on that i demand the yeas and nays .  mr. chairman , i thank the gentleman very much .  i do appreciate the time .  i appreciate all the assistance in this bill .  the chairman has been wonderful in helping with this and making this a reality .  mr. chairman , i rise today in strong support of h.r. 1751 , the secure access to justice and court protection act of 2005 .  this bill prevents , protects , and punishes .  it prevents future attacks , it protects the entire courthouse family , and it punishes those who threaten the safety and security of our nation 's courthouses .  the time has come to restore some sanity and security , and it is the responsibility of the government to assure our citizens have a safe courtroom .  the legislation will work to prevent future attacks in our nation 's courthouses such as what happened at my former courthouse in east texas .  that tragic day in february , we lost a brave man , mark wilson , who stepped up to attempt to save the lives of innocent citizens at the courthouse and was killed the same day .  also , deputy sherman dollison was badly injured while he attempted to protect those at the courthouse .  with passage of the secure access to justice and court protection act , we are taking an important step toward prevention of similar events happening again .  this bill has garnered a lot of support across the country since its introduction in april , and i want to take a moment to thank some of those who have supported h.r. 1751 .  first of all , i thank judge cynthia kent , who hails from the rose city of tyler , texas .  judge kent is a talented judge and a good friend .  she testified before the crime , terrorism and homeland security subcommittee about the tragic events that took place right outside the courtroom she presides over .  she , too , knows personally about threats against her and her family .  her input and support have been extremely helpful in developing this legislation .  judge jane roth , former chairwoman of the judicial conference committee on security and facilities , also testified and was very helpful ; honorable paul mcnulty , who was then the u.s. attorney for the eastern district of virginia ; and also honorable john clark , who at that time was a u.s. marshal for the eastern district of virginia .  i would also like to thank judge joan lefkow for her testimony before the senate supporting the court security legislation .  i have spoken with her personally and again just in the last hour , and she is most gracious and also grateful for the overall bill .  she had also mentioned previously when i talked with her a concern about provisions regarding writs of habeas corpus procedure .  that has been pulled from the bill itself .  it is not part of the overall bill today .  we also know that her elderly mother and husband were tragically murdered by a disgruntled gentleman who was upset by a ruling she had made in a case .  this bill requires consultation and coordination of u.s. courts between u.s. marshals and the courts themselves .  it will open the lines of communication between the marshals and the courts and , therefore , help with the prevention , protection , and penalties in this bill .  those of us who have had threats against us as judges , but particularly against our families , understand all too well the importance of this bill .  i would also like to thank chairman sensenbrenner for shepherding this legislation as he has through his committee , through the rules and here to the floor .  it is an honor to serve with him on the judiciary committee that he chairs , and i thank the chairman for that continued support .  this legislation will protect immediate family members of federally funded public safety officers and judges at all levels .  it also provides enhanced penalties where the victims are u.s. judges , federal law enforcement officers , federally funded public safety officers , and includes now a provision to protect national guard troops when they are acting as public safety officers .  it increases the maximum punishment for crimes against victims , witnesses , jurors and informants .  this bill adds a new federal crime prohibiting recording a fictitious lien by covering officers and employees of the united states , including the federal judiciary and its employees .  it provides a 30-year mandatory minimum to life in prison , or the death penalty for killing a federally funded public safety officer .  of course , for the defendant to get the death penalty , a death must have resulted from their actions .  the bill includes killing members of the national guard , as i mentioned , and gives them added protection .  there has been some mention by the gentlewoman from texas regarding mandatory minimums , and it should be noted that we removed a number of mandatory minimums in this bill for things like simple assault and threats .  so the court has that consideration .  but when it comes to seriously threatening , killing , kidnapping , conspiring to do these things , there should be a mandatory minimum and there is .  the folks that we attempt to protect are on the front lines .  they need protection .  mr. chairman , i want to thank the rules committee chairman , the gentleman from california ( mr. dreier )  .  his bill was added to this , the david march provision , making a new federal criminal offense for flight to avoid prosecution for killing a peace officer .  it imposes 10 years in prison in addition to whatever the defendant receives .  so it stacks it .  this is not intended to usurp state authority but to assist the states where they need it and where they are unable .  this valuable piece of legislation is seeking to ensure the safety and security of america 's last bastion of civility , our nation 's courthouses .  i urge all members to vote yes .  mr. speaker , i rise in strong support of this agreement , and i want to begin by extending my congratulations to the distinguished chairman of the trade subcommittee for his fine work on this effort and to thank him along with my friend from wisconsin and my friend from texas , both of whom are here on the floor and who worked closely with us , with our working group , to promote the issue of trade .  my friend from florida is absolutely right , if we do not shape the global economy , we will be shaped by it .  the world is moving dramatically towards breaking down barriers , understanding that the free flow of goods and services and products and ideas is absolutely essential , and i believe that we must do everything that we possibly can to expand that .  now , mr. speaker , we have put into place over the past several years , under democrats and republicans as presidents , a wide range of trade agreements .  we have , since we put trade promotion authority back into place , been able to see the expansion of the north american free trade agreement .  and by the way , if you look at the trade relationship between mexico and the united states today , there is a third of $ 1 trillion in cross-border trade between mexico and the united states .  the middle-class population in mexico is larger than the entire canadian population .  and so focusing on these issues is very important if we are going to deal with questions like the one we are going to address next week , illegal immigration , to try to enhance the economies of these developing nations .  we want people who are struggling to get on to the first rung of the economic ladder , and that is what these trade agreements are about when it comes to their relationship .  now , let us look at what these trade agreements mean to u.s. workers .  as my friend from florida just said , last month 215 , 000 new jobs were created .  if we look at the last few years , at the last 4 years , we have seen 4.5 million new jobs created .  in fact , mr. speaker , i will say that there are more people working in the united states of america today than we have ever seen working .  reclaiming my time , i will respond to that question .  the gentleman posed the question , and i am happy to respond to that question , and then i will continue with my statement .  on average , jobs that are focused on exports into new markets , which is exactly what these agreements are all about , exactly what these agreements are all about , on average , these jobs focused on exports pay about 17 percent higher wage rates than those that are focused on jobs that are merely designed for domestic consumption here .  if i could reclaim my time , let me just say that it is fascinating to listen to my friends on the other side of the aisle who , when we were in the midst of our debate just a few minutes ago on the alternative minimum tax , they were very strong proponents of making sure we bring about reform so that people who are in that wage rate that goes all the way up to $ 342 , 000 a year get relief under the amt .  so i believe that if you look at the jobs that have been created , if you look at the wage rates that we have right now in the united states , if you look at the standard of living in the united states of america juxtaposed to other countries in the world , it is very clear that the united states of america is the single greatest nation on the face of the earth , and it is in large part due to the fact that we have over the last several years put together a wide range of trade agreements .  and i would argue that building on the central american free trade agreement , this bahrain trade agreement , which is what we are talking about at this moment , i believe is very , very critical to continuing that kind of growth .  now , let us look at the issue of the global war on terror .  my friend from wisconsin raised that .  now , one of the things that is essential as we seek our opportunity to try and turn the corner on the threat of terrorism , we need to focus on economic growth throughout the middle east .  a former defense department official said to me when we were talking about the aftermath of september 11 , 2001 , that if we had seen a percentage point or two more growth in afghanistan and pakistan , we might have been able to diminish the threat of september 11 .  why ?  because there is a sense that somehow those involved in international terrorism are simply doing this in the name of allah .  all one needs to do is look at what mohammed atta and his cronies were doing before perpetuating the most heinous act on our soil on september 11 of 2001 .  it is not as if they were worshipping allah .  i recall their being in south florida and las vegas , nevada , leading up to that ; meaning the focus on economic opportunity is something that we need to realize can help diminish that kind of terrorist threat there .  and that is a very important part of what this agreement is about .  now , i have to say that realizing that the rule of law , the expansion of parliamentary elections , all of those kinds of things which can help diminish that kind of threat are critical , and that is a very important part of this agreement .  so as i listen to my friends on the other side of the aisle , and i am happy to say this agreement is enjoying strong bipartisan support , but as i listen to those on the other side of the aisle who are opposed to this agreement , it is very unfortunate that so many of them do not recognize the tremendous growth that my friend from florida , the chairman of the trade subcommittee , just went through : the 4.3 percent gdp growth , a 5 percent unemployment rate , 215 , 000 jobs created last month alone in the aftermath of hurricane katrina , and all of the other challenges that we faced , that these have come about in large part due to the trade agreements that we have put into place .  and why ?  because we are opening up new markets around the world .  and i thank my friend very much .  mr. speaker , i thank my friend for that contribution , showing , as i said , that the standard of living in the united states of america is strong .  and the president has put it very well : we are never going to be satisfied until every american who wants a job has a job .  we must continue to do everything possible to ensure that that happens , and that again is what this agreement is about .  ninety-four percent of the world 's consumers are outside of our borders , mr. speaker .  so i believe we must do everything we can to pry open those markets , because the world has access to the u.s. consumer market , and that is a good thing ; but what we need to do is gain more and more access to their markets .  so this is a win-win all the way down the line .  this is a continuation of what we have seen of the drcafta agreement , the nafta agreement , and others that are creating great opportunity for u.s. workers and consumers alike .  and i want to say in conclusion that i am very , very grateful that through this agreement we are getting us back to this notion of bipartisanship , because it is not a republican or democratic issue .  trade is an issue that should see the support of republicans and democrats .  we are happy to provide the lead , but every democrat who wants to jump on board in support of the cause of free trade is more than welcome , and i am happy the democrats are understanding the critical importance of this effort .  mr. speaker , i thank the gentleman for yielding me this time .  mr. speaker , again we have an opportunity to stand up for american families .  again , we have an opportunity to stand up for free trade and pass the u.s.-bahrain free trade agreement .  this is a simple matter .  free trade delivers a greater choice of goods and services to american consumers at lower prices .  that means families can buy more using less of their paychecks .  more trade means more competition , and competition has always helped the consumer .  we have over 200 years of history to prove that .  in fact , mr. speaker , over the past few years , prices have dropped for a wide array of goods and services which are produced around the world , such as video equipment and toys .  yet we pay a lot more for products that do not effectively compete with foreign companies , for example , prescription drugs and cable television .  again , competition works .  trade works .  but beyond all of the obvious economic benefits of free trade , we must recognize that fundamentally this is an issue of personal freedom .  nations do not trade with nations ; people trade with people .  with the exception of national security considerations , every american should have the right to determine the origin of the goods and services they want to purchase .  is this not the land of the free ?  have countless generations not fought and sacrificed to secure the blessings of liberty for all americans ?  maybe we in congress have the power , but do we have the right to tell americans that we will not allow them to buy cheaper products because those products may come from other nations ?  i think not , mr. speaker .  mr. speaker , this particular trade agreement not only stands for freedom ; it stands for friendship .  the nation of bahrain is a friend of the united states and an important ally in the global war on terror .  for over 200 years , america has benefited from trade and competition .  i urge my colleagues to once again reject protectionism and , instead , stand for prosperity , stand for freedom , and stand with me in voting for this trade agreement .  mr. speaker , today i support h.r. 4340 , the u.s.-bahrain free trade agreement .  bahrain is an important political , economic and military ally , and in the years since 9/11 , has been a valued partner in the war on terror .  the u.s.-bahrain free trade agreement will strengthen this key relationship and bolster the important reforms currently taking place in bahrain .  bahrain deserves special recognition for its military cooperation with the united states military .  since 1995 , bahrain has been home to the u.s. navy 's 5th fleet .  from this location , the 5th fleet 's area of responsibility encompasses 7.5 million square miles and includes the arabian gulf , red sea , gulf of oman and parts of the indian ocean .  as a commander in the navy reserve , i fully appreciate the value of bahrain 's willingness to host our fleet in this strategic region .  the u.s.-bahrain free trade agreement is also significant because it rewards bahrain for its rapprochement towards israel .  last month , bahraini foreign minister sheikh muhammad bin mubarak confirmed that his country decided to lift its boycott of israeli products .  in the face of the arab league 's efforts to intensify the boycott , bahrain has taken a bold and symbolic step towards peace in the middle east .  bahrain has shown that it is committed to reform , and we are equally committed to joining with them with open markets .  i proudly support this bill that expands trade bilaterally and moves closer to the vision of a peaceful , democratic , and freely trading middle east .  mr. speaker , i thank the gentleman for his leadership on all the free trade agreements and his leadership on so many difficult issues .  i rise in strong support of the u.s.-bahrain free trade agreement .  this fta represents an important step toward a more prosperous and economically vibrant middle east .  the broad scope of this agreement and its consideration for environment and labor standards , as well as provisions that address other foreign policy concerns , makes the u.s.-bahrain agreement an important model for future ftas .  this agreement encompasses more than just economics .  it also reflects a broader commitment to an ally that hosts the fifth fleet of the u.s. navy and has assisted us here in the united states in our pursuit of al qaeda and other islamic extremist organizations .  additionally , it highlights and rewards bahrain 's reform efforts thus far , as illustrated by the elections held in 2002 in which women fully participated and by bahrain 's consistent rating by the heritage foundation as the freest economy in the middle east .  bahrain 's recent decision to pull out of the arab league boycott of israel also represents the government 's rejection of intolerance and anti-semitism and its commitment to fully integrate into the world economy .  to affirm this commitment and establish a positive precedent for the future of ftas with countries in the region , rejection of the arab league boycott of israel is incorporated as a provision of the u.s.-bahrain fta .  while significant strides have been made by bahrain , i hope this agreement serves as a catalyst for further reforms , because they are needed to address the remaining concerns over its human rights records , starting with the reopening of the bahrain center for human rights .  mr. speaker , according to the 9/11 commission report , economic reforms will be vital in transforming the middle east into a region which rejects despotism and terrorism and , instead , embraces freedom and democracy .  this fta strikes at the heart of that .  mr. speaker , i thank the chairman for yielding , and for his hard work on this .  also i want to start off , mr. speaker , by thanking the democrats on the committee for working so hard and diligently with us .  this is a bipartisan bill .  this is a bipartisan trade agreement .  we will see votes from a lot of democrats and a lot of republicans when this comes to a vote .  why is that ?  mr. speaker , i think this is a very important step in the right direction for our country .  this is a very important precedent-making event .  what we are accomplishing here is the first trade agreement in this region since the 9/11 commission published their findings , since we launched the middle east free trade area initiative , since 9/11 .  now , let us just say it is controversial what our country is doing in iraq .  i think it is safe to say that .  that is a part of our war on terror , has controversy .  well , what are we trying to accomplish there ?  we believe that freedom and democracy are the best ultimate tools in the war on terrorism .  we believe that our children and grandchildren will be more safe and secure here in america and around the world , if other people are free , if other people have the ability to determine their own destiny and their own futures .  what does this have to do with that ?  a trade agreement with the united states with these countries , with bahrain , in particular , helps secure that future .  by seeing the leadership of bahrain , the first country in the gulf to do this , gravitating and taking the leadership , for rule of law , transparency in its legislature , changing its government to a constitutional monarchy , having a directly representative parliament , giving women the right to vote , given women elected positions in government , giving woman elected positions in the ministry , in the cabinet level , having the rule of law , having transparency , all of those things are the necessary and key foundations and building blocks to freedom and democracy .  that is ultimately how we win against the war on terrorism .  this is the way we do it on a bipartisan basis .  this is the opportunity for republicans and democrats to go forward with one voice , one face , one message as americans going overseas , going forward confidently to win the war on terror and help encourage the spread of freedom and democracy .  that is why this is an important trade agreement .  is bahrain significant from an economic value ?  it is a small country relative to other economic trade partners .  is this trade agreement in and of itself a good deal for us ?  absolutely .  zero tariffs on manufactured goods .  zero tariffs on our agricultural goods .  fair trade rules .  this agreement improves labor standards .  the bahrainees have already shown leadership in their region in this area .  in 2000 , they passed a very sweeping labor reform law .  they have since committed to passing even more sweeping labor reform laws .  so we are already seeing tremendous progress being made .  this is a country , mr. speaker , that has really shown leadership in this region against the grain , against pressure from their neighbors across the causeway in saudi arabia and elsewhere in the gulf .  this is a country that has been our friend and ally for over 100 years , that has hosted our 5th fleet naval base from which we do all of our naval operations in the iraqi theatre , in the afghani theatre , come from bahrain , from our 5th fleet .  this is a country that has stood with the united states through thick and then in helping us stop money laundering for terrorists , in helping us with our military , in standing with us for democracy in the middle east .  it is an important ally .  it is an ally that has done a lot , that has shown leadership , that has risked a lot to stand with us for democracy and freedom , that is gravitating towards these kinds of reforms .  the vision that this trade agreement represents , mr. speaker , is a vision of spreading trade , free markets , capitalism and democracy and freedom throughout the greater middle east .  this is the road map to the future of the middle east .  and that is why it is so important .  this is a bipartisan movement .  that is why i just want to say one more time how thankful i am to the ranking member of the ways and means committee , the gentleman from new york ( mr. rangel )  for working very hard to meet this agreement , and the gentleman from maryland ( mr. cardin )  as well , for working hard to meet this agreement so that we can stand here today as republicans and democrats in favor of this very important trade agreement .  mr. speaker , we have heard throughout this debate a lot of reference to the trade deficit .  i think it is important to look at that .  when you look at our nation 's trade deficit , we enjoy a very large surplus in services , and our trade deficit comes from a trade deficit in manufactured goods .  mr. speaker , according to the latest statistics , 94 percent of our trade deficit comes from countries we do not have a free trade agreement with .  a free trade agreement like this agreement helps us get fair trade rule so we can trade honestly with each other ; and , yes , get an advantage so we can create more jobs , send more exports , and have better paying jobs here at home .  i will just repeat that statistic one more time : 94 percent of our manufactured good trade deficit comes from countries we do not have a trade agreement with .  but it is more than that .  trade combines people .  what is important about this agreement is beyond the economic value which is very substantial .  it is about the human value .  you see , mr. speaker , we have good relations between our governments .  our 5th fleet is located in bahrain .  we have great relations between our diplomats and the bahrainees , between our president and the emir .  what this agreement proposes to do is put american people in contact with bahrainee people , put americans in contact with muslims , put americans in contact with arabs in the gulf so we can better understand each other .  trade is about individuals combining to join in mutually beneficial behavior and activity and business arrangements , to help their families and help create jobs and grow their economies .  but more than that , trade will help our people better understand the people we do not understand as well .  we need a better understanding of people in the arab world .  we need a better understanding of muslims .  this is important because of the climate we face in the world .  that is why it is important that we pass this agreement so that the american people can join and bond in friendship with the bahrainee people in the gulf coast in the middle east so we can have a better understanding of each other .  as we understand each other better , we can better secure peace and security for our children .  mr. speaker , pursuant to house resolution 583 , i call up the bill ( h.r. 4340 ) to implement the united states-bahrain free trade agreement , and ask for its immediate consideration .  mr. speaker , i yield myself such time as i may consume .  mr. speaker , today the house considers the united states-bahrain free trade agreement implementation act .  i am pleased my friend and ranking member of the trade subcommittee ( mr. cardin )  , as well as mr. rangel , has joined me in supporting this agreement .  it is tremendously important that our trade agenda remain on track and that we seek bipartisan support in accomplishing this goal .  the administration has publicly stated its commitment to the middle east free trade area by the year 2013 .  this agreement takes a key step in moving towards this goal .  political and economic progress continue to take shape in the middle east .  and by approving this agreement , the united states shows its support for our ally , bahrain , and for the ideal of promoting open markets with leading reforms .  the office of the united states trade representative has negotiated an agreement that , in my view , will serve as a model for the region .  upon implementation , all bilateral trade and consumer and industrial products will become duty free .  all agricultural products are covered by the agreement .  it will allow for immediate duty-free access for united states agricultural exports in 98 percent of the agricultural categories with a few remaining categories phased out over the next 10 years in addition , the commitments to this agreement relating to services are the strongest in any united states free trade agreement to date .  finally , i want to recognize the actions taken by bahrain to eliminate all aspects of the arab league boycott of the state of israel .  bahrain took the commendable step of writing to ambassador portman to reiterate its commitment on this issue .  bahrain has ended the secondary and tertiary aspects of the boycott , dismantled all aspects of the primary boycott , and is fully committed to complying with world trade organization requirements .  in addition to these actions by bahrain , i am also pleased with the commitment that the u.s. trade representative made to me during the committee 's consideration of this agreement to report annually on the status of the arab league boycott and efforts to dismantle it in bahrain and all other countries where it has been applied .  mr. speaker , i submit for printing in the record a letter from bahrain 's finance minister to ambassador portman relating to this issue .  kingdom of bahrain , ministry of finance , minister 's office , september 5 , 2005 .  dear ambassador portman : please accept my congratulations on your recent appointment to serve as the u.s. trade representatives .  i look forward to meeting with you soon to discuss our mutual interest in strengthening trade relations between the kingdom of bahrain and the united states .  it has come to my attention that questions have arisen regarding any secondary and tertiary boycotts related to israel .  following a decision of the arab league in 1963 and prior to bahrain 's independence , the bahrain government issued law no .  5 of 1963 ( finance ) which established the boycott of israel office .  in 1994 , the kingdom of bahrain eliminated all aspects of secondary and tertiary boycotts which extended to businesses which had relations with israeli companies and businesses .  attached please find a copy of the memorandum recently sent to all bahrain ministries reminding them that the secondary and tertiary boycotts are null and void .  in the hope of advancing peace and regional cooperation , the kingdom of bahrain recognizes the need to dismantle the primary boycott of israel and is beginning efforts to achieve that goal .  as founding members of the world trade organization ( wto ) , the kingdom of bahrain is fully committed to complying with wto requirements .  bahrain has no restrictions whatsoever on american companies trading with bahrain or doing business in bahrain , regardless of its ownership or relations with israeli companies .  finally , it is bahrain 's sincerest hope that our free trade agreement with the united states will enhance efforts to achieve a real and lasting peace in the middle east .  yours sincerely , ahmed bin mohammed al khalifa , mr. speaker , the united states needs allies in the middle east .  bahrain has stepped up to the plate in so many ways .  let me state them .  as the home of our united states navy 's 5th fleet , as a key ally in the war on terror , and by promoting an open and transparent market that will benefit our overall bilateral relationship .  open and free trade with bahrain will prove beneficial , both in the short run , and especially over time .  we will witness a nation leading a region of the world towards openness with the united states and doing it through trade .  through these ties , i firmly believe that this agreement will advance the development of democratic principles throughout that region .  mr. speaker , i thank my ways and means colleagues for moving this agreement to the floor for today 's consideration .  i especially want to recognize the efforts of the gentleman from wisconsin ( mr. ryan )  and the gentleman from new york ( mr. meeks )  for their commitment to seeing a united states-bahrain free trade agreement come to fruition .  as co-chairs of the u.s.-bahrain congressional caucus , they educated and provided key information to members and staff in anticipation of this floor vote .  i want to thank them publicly for their efforts .  mr. speaker , the agreement before us today is right for america for economic and strategic reasons .  we must ensure that we support our allies in the middle east .  by opening markets , we empower people to reap the benefits of economic freedom .  mr. speaker , i reserve the balance of my time .  mr. speaker , i yield myself such time as i may consume .  mr. speaker , the gentleman from california ( mr. stark )  mentioned that we were trying to reward our friends in some way .  and we hear from the gentleman who just left the well about cafta and going back and rehashing cafta , talking about votes in the middle of the night .  i would like to pose this question : what is wrong with trying to reward our friends ?  that is who we want to promote business with is our friends .  there is nothing in the world wrong with that and we should do that .  i would also like to point out when he was talking about votes in the middle of the night , it is now 3 : 40 eastern standard time , the sun is shining brightly , and it is a beautiful day .  mr. speaker , i yield myself such time as i may consume .  in quick response to the gentleman from vermont , our economy is growing jobs at the rate of about 200 , 000 a month .  productivity is higher than it has ever been .  our economy is the fastest growing economy at 4.3 percent per year .  the economy is strong in the united states .  unemployment figures are down below 5 percent .  it is lower than it was in any of the previous decades .  our economy is strong and it is growing , and it is growing because of the type of legislation that we are passing .  we can not be protectionists and retain the strong economy that we have in a world that is going free trade .  you may not like free trade , but the world is going free trade .  and if we are going to compete in the global economy , we need to move towards free trade , and we need to be careful in negotiating these agreements one after the other .  mr. speaker , i want to add another provision there , that over the last 3 years , hourly wages have increased in the united states by 8 percent .  so a lot of this stuff we have heard is absolutely false .  mr. speaker , i yield myself the balance of my time .  mr. speaker , i would also like to associate myself with the remarks of the gentleman from maryland .  i think he spoke quite eloquently about the importance of this agreement to the region .  when the history of the middle east is written , i think the historians will view this trade bill as an important stepping stone towards the development and imposition of democracies and stability in that part of the world , which is very much in our best interest .  bahrain has been a great ally through many , many years of troubling times , and times when it was not necessarily easy to be friends with the united states if you are in the middle east and if you are an arab country .  but they have stood with us .  our naval base there is quite important .  i think it is important that we try to do everything we can to do business with our friends .  they have proven to be a great friend of the united states .  we have visited with the ambassador from bahrain who is a delightful man who is a great salesman for his country .  i believe that this is a significant vote .  this is not just a flea on an elephant , as mr. stark  stated .  this is an important ally in which we are going to have a free trade agreement .  i would urge all members to vote yes on this most important issue , because i think a message must be sent out loud and strong that we are supporting free trade when we have a good agreement drawn .  this has been drawn and approved in a bipartisan way .  this is good for the united states .  it is not only good for bahrain , but it is good for the united states .  i would also like to thank mr. cardin , mr. rangel and other members from the other side of the aisle , as well as mr. ryan  and chairman thomas , and all of those who have worked hard to bring this along , and of course staff on both sides of the aisle .  congress can not operate without staff , and i would like to thank them for what they have done in putting this agreement together .  mr. speaker , on that i demand the yeas and nays .  mr. speaker , this has been an interesting debate , as it always seems like it is these days in this house .  in 2003 , i actually thought we did some very good things with the tax cuts we implemented , and i thought we did them for families back home in all of our districts .  so on august 2 , 2005 , i joined with a colleague of mine from colorado , congresswoman musgrave , a member of the small business committee , and we explored the effect of at least one of those tax cuts that we are talking about extending today , section 17 , which increases the allowable expensing limits from $ 25 , 000 on depreciable assets to $ 100 , 000 .  now , i think linda jones , the owner of area rentals back in westminster , colorado , will be delighted to understand that she is a member of a special interest and must surely be rich , by definition , because she got a tax break .  what she did with that was , in 2003 , she used $ 57 , 000 of the allowable expensing limits to purchase some additional equipment that she rents in her store .  and because she saved a little over $ 7 , 300 in tax expense , and that came the same year she got a 30 percent increase in her employees ' health care costs , she was able to maintain coverage for health care for her employees .  the very next year she used an additional $ 64 , 000 of the expensing allowance to purchase even more equipment to expand her store , keep jobs , and , in fact , increase jobs .  ron lautzenheiser must be among the rich and the special interests , too , except he runs a big old tire center back in fort collins .  when he did his calculations , wanting to expand , the increase in expensing limits contained in section 179 allowed him to figure out how to do that .  he added two new stores and went from one big old tire center employing but a handful of people to now employing 50 people in three stores .  this is commonsense legislation for the real people back home , and i urge its adoption .  mr. speaker , at this time , i would like to yield to the gentlewoman from north carolina for a couple of minutes .  she is going to talk with us about her time on the road this week with the president as the president visited in her area in north carolina , and she had the opportunity to not only talk tax reforms with the president , but to listen to her constituents in north carolina and to hear what was on their mind as they enjoyed that visit and as they had prepared for that visit .  mr. speaker , i thank the gentlewoman from north carolina and i thank her for taking the time this week to look at how workers continue educating themselves and preparing and participating in a changing economy , a changing job market .  i mentioned the diversity of experience that comes to this body and what goes into looking at these policies and how we remain competitive , what we need to do to be competitive and the decisions we make , how tax and government budgeting and spending affects the budget .  the gentlewoman from north carolina spent her time in education .  ms. foxx  came to us after working at post-secondary education and looking for avenues to best encourage individuals to become lifelong learners , to continue improving and honing those skills so that they were productive in the job market , and i thank her for her leadership .  i thank her for the time spent with the president and with the north carolinians this weekend as they were able to showcase their facility and showcase what they are doing to be a leader in being competitive in a global economy .  at this time , i would like to recognize the gentleman from texas ( mr. hensarling )  who has worked tirelessly not only on budgeting and not only on looking at how we budget , but looking at what happens with tax policy and the ramifications that that has throughout our economy , both for our large businesses , our small businesses and for our families .  we appreciate the leadership that he has brought to the budgeting issue , looking at both sides of that ledger , your inflows and your outflows .  if the gentleman will yield , i want us to talk a little more about the deficit dropping , because that is one of the true benefits that we do see from this .  and individuals who are at home and watching and listening to this conversation that we are having tonight , they can go to the treasury department web site , they can go to the congressional budget office and they can pull up these figures so that they can see these are solid figures .  these are not our numbers .  this is not political spin .  these are figures and facts .  this is what has been reported .  we know that federal tax revenues increased in fiscal year 2005 by $ 274 billion .  we know that that is the reason this deficit is $ 138 billion lower than it had been estimated to be .  now , this is the reason that we are seeing such a change in what the deficit is .  this is the reason we are seeing growth .  the gentleman mentioned the policies , the robust economy and what are some of the benefits that come from this .  what happens with small business when there is more money left at the end of the month and they can get in there and say , you know , we want to do some things .  business investment .  reinvestment in the business that you own .  that is up over 10 percent .  it is up over 10 percent .  that is men and women that believe in what they are doing .  if the gentleman will yield , let us talk about some of these provisions that are in the bill that is going to be before us .  because we do not want the democrat tax increase to take place , and that is why the leadership in this house is working to be certain that we pass our tax relief extension reconciliation act .  and if individuals are going to go on and look at this , it is house resolution 4297 .  i think they would like to see some of the provisions that are in here .  the gentleman from texas and i have worked long and hard on one provision which is in here , which is continued deductibility of state and local sales taxes from your federal income tax filing .  in my state of tennessee that is something that is mighty important , because we are one of those great states that does not have a state income tax .  we have fought hard in tennessee to be sure that we stay income-tax free , and we are .  we want to continue this deduction .  it is a deduction that we worked hard last year to get restored , and we thank another gentleman from texas , mr. brady , for his incredible leadership on this issue , and we thank the leadership of the house for working so closely with us on it .  but that sales tax deductibility is something we encourage everyone in this body , everyone who is in a state that does not have a state income tax to support this legislation tomorrow because it is so important to the individuals in our states .  it is estimated that in tennessee this is worth about $ 1 billion a year to the state of tennessee .  if the gentleman will yield , yes , for those of us in nonincome tax states that means that you are voting to take that deduction away from them .  another one that you would be voting to take away is the above-the-line deduction for out-of-pocket teacher-classroom expenses .  extending that deduction for our nation 's teachers is included in this bill .  i have so many of my friends that i went through college with who are teachers , and many of them have been teaching for about 30 years now .  this is something that is important to them , because they spend a lot of their out-of-pocket money buying little things , buying little things that are going to enrich the classroom day .  the above-the-line deduction for higher education expenses , as i was saying earlier , the research and development tax credit , now that is something that is so important to our companies in this country .  when you talk about the bioshield projects , biotech developments in agricultural products , in pharmaceuticals , when you talk about technology and the needs that we have there for our nation 's first responders , for our military , all of that comes in research and development .  when you talk about looking at what businesses are investing in as they are working , our small business manufacturers , whose output is up for the first time in a couple of decades , they are investing in this research and development to build a better mousetrap .  mr. speaker , the gentleman is exactly right because that is what it would be .  at this time of year , coming in and voting a tax increase , voting a tax increase on our nation 's small businesses , voting a tax increase on our nation 's families .  to us , that is unacceptable .  we know that the rate of economic growth in this nation , the jobs growth , has shown that the tax reforms that have been passed work and they yield results .  another provision that is included in this bill is the welfare-to-work tax credit .  as the gentleman from texas was saying , individuals who may not have had a job are able to get a job because of the growth we are seeing in the small business sector .  and the welfare-to-work tax credit for those businesses that are hiring individuals who have received public assistance for an extended period of time , that would go away .  so then it becomes a tax increase on those businesses if they are no longer able to avail themselves of that .  the 15-year depreciation period for restaurants and for leasehold improvements for that industry , that is included in this bill .  i know in so many of my towns in the 7th congressional district in tennessee , this is very important to these small businesses .  they depend on this .  they need this .  the gentleman is accurate on that .  individuals that vote no on this tomorrow would be voting to increase that on our nation 's teachers .  they would be voting no on state sales tax deductibility .  they would be voting against that , for all of our constituents in tennessee and texas and washington state and wyoming and other states across the nation that enjoy that sales tax deductibility .  another one they would be voting no on is the savers ' tax credit for low-income workers who contribute to retirement savings accounts .  we talk about doing things that will assist those who are working and need a hand up and need a little bit of help .  focusing on that savers ' tax credit , that is something we want to do and we want to see that continue .  the gentleman from georgia is exactly right , that is something that is included in this bill , the provisions for our nation 's teachers .  mr. speaker , there are over 91 million americans who own shares of stock in companies in this country , 91 million americans who have invested in that capital creation process , invested in these companies .  when we talk about capital gains and dividends , sometimes we think as you are saying , well , that is just somebody else .  that does not apply to me .  but for individuals that have 401 ( k ) s and retirement plans , yes it does .  what we are seeing is that 51 percent of our tax-paying senior citizens are claiming dividend income , and 47 percent of total dividend income earned in america is by senior citizens .  mr. speaker , the gentleman is precisely right on that .  again , the bill tomorrow is h.r. 4297 .  it is the tax relief extension reconciliation act , and it is called the tax relief extension because these are reliefs that were passed in 2003 .  as we have continued to talk through the evening , these are the provisions that have really created this robust economy that we are seeing , 4.1 percent gdp growth just this last quarter .  i think it is so important that we keep our focus there .  this is a booming economy .  this is a growing economy .  we are seeing regularly that there is jobs creation that is taking place in our communities .  i love it when i am out in my community , and i know the gentleman from texas has the same experience , and you are driving down the street and all of a sudden you see an entire group of new stores that are going in .  generally they are small businesses .  you walk inside and there is an excitement and energy there that is just indescribable .  there is so much of that happening in this nation 's small businesses .  as people have seen their rate of taxation reduced , they have had a little bit more income left with those businesses that they can go back in and reinvest in those businesses , or gather that capital together to start that business or start that small manufacturing plant .  that is why we see the business reinvestment dollars up 10 percent .  that is why we see jobs creation taking place , why we are seeing over 4 million jobs , 4.46 million jobs created since we started down this path of reforming taxes , reducing those taxes and freeing up free enterprise .  a couple of other provisions .  talking about your district and the way this bill tomorrow will affect your district , in this bill , h.r. 4297 tomorrow , there will be a technical correction in there that affects this nation 's songwriters , which of course , so many of them live in my district , and i do believe that they are definitely some of the most creative people and such an important part of our creative community .  but for years , when a songwriter wants to sell their catalog , which is their life 's work , it is like selling that small business that eddie has and that so many of our constituents have , then they have been taxed at ordinary income tax and had to pay self-employment .  this is their retirement .  this is their nest egg they have pulled together .  and a correction that we will make tomorrow will affect so many of those songwriters that are in memphis and nashville and down in austin and in those areas because it will allow those catalogs to be sold and those individuals to pay a capital gains tax like other small business owners , there again , leaving more money and more of that nest egg for them as they retire and as they are seniors , and allowing them to look at how they do things better , how they grow those small businesses .  talking about our homes and construction and home sales .  in october , home sales reached 7.1 units in october .  and the thing that is so interesting is that is just off the historic high of home sales which was in june of this year when there were 7.3 units that were built or were sold .  so whether it is new homes being built , whether it is existing homes , the home sales , how amazing that we are seeing home sales reaching such high numbers in both the new construction and the existing home sales category .  i thank the gentleman from texas , and i thank him so much for being here to talk with us tonight about why this is important legislation and why it is important that we stop a tax increase on the american people .  and we have talked about so many of these issues tonight .  mr. speaker , this economy is booming .  inflation is low .  unemployment is near historic lows .  we saw that 4.1 percent growth with the quarter that ended in september of 2005 .  and i think it is important to realize that this just did not happen .  it did not just happen .  and i know that my constituents certainly remember the recession the president confronted when he took office , and they remember the impact that september 11 had on our economy .  we did not bury our heads in the sand when that happened .  we rolled up our sleeves .  we got to work .  we passed tax reforms and tax relief , and tomorrow is our opportunity to extend that .  mr. speaker , i encourage all members of this body to join us in supporting h.r. 4297 tomorrow .  mr. speaker , i rise to support the underlying bill and to oppose the substitute .  and this is the reason why : my state , tennessee , has seen more than $ 250 million in taxpayer savings a year from the sales tax deduction we passed in 2004 .  the tax relief extension act that we are passing today will extend that .  there is no excuse not to support this matter of tax fairness for states like mine .  it is great for our economy ; it is great for tennessee 's main streets .  and those hundreds of millions of dollars are being pumped back into those local economies .  my state should not be penalized for choosing an alternative tax system .  it is a better tax system .  we want to keep it .  i know many of my friends who are blue dogs supported the tax cut , and i hope that they are going to join us today and vote for the majority 's bill .  tennesseeans are watching this vote .  mr. speaker , i do not know how many different ways we are going to have to talk about this economy and the fact that it is booming , jobs creation , home sales up , productivity soaring ; but some never let facts get in the way of their political agenda .  if you read the new york times , the washington post , or listen to many of my colleagues , you believe that our economy is dismal and we have not created a single solitary new job .  one important thing the federal reserve noted : since we passed these tax relief measures in 2003 , american households have increased their nest eggs , their retirement security , their savings by $ 10.5 trillion , $ 10.5 trillion net worth development by american households .  finally , mr. speaker , this bill before us today , this bill has a provision that helps our nation 's songwriters .  as chairman of the congressional songwriters caucus , we worked to correct an inequity in the tax code that penalizes them when they sell their life 's work .  the bill solves that .  i thank my friend from kentucky ( mr. lewis )  and chairman thomas for their work on this issue .  mr. speaker , i am in opposition to the substitute because i am for the underlying bill and i am for the things it has done for our economy .  one of the great changes that this bill showed in what happens in the federal government is a belief that people are better at solving economic problems than government is .  when the tax structure that we are voting today to extend was put in place , the determination was made that we were in a difficult economic time , and the way to get out of that difficult economic time was to trust the people , not to come up with some big complicated government program , but to trust the people to let them keep more of their money , to put some minor incentives in the tax code to do whatever they wanted to do sooner , rather than later , but no incentive in the tax code to do a specific thing .  the incentive was to trust the american people to see what we could do to get the economy growing again and going again , and that is what has happened .  but this is no time for that to stop .  this is no time to say we should put the brakes on this economy , just because the unemployment rate is lower than the average of the 1970s , 1980s and 1990s .  it is still 5 percent .  we should want it to be lower than that .  just because income to the federal government increased last year at a rate three times the projection , the highest increase in federal government ever without a tax increase , how did that happen ?  it happened because the economy was working .  it happened because more people had jobs , that $ 100 billion that came in in the fiscal year that ended september 30 that we did not anticipate , did not come i was listening to the debate earlier , and so much of the debate earlier was about wealthy americans .  amazingly , those same americans yesterday were the upper middle class .  overnight somehow the upper middle class became wealthy americans .  but not just the upper middle class benefits from this .  all americans benefit from this in their own way .  in the reduction in the capital gains rate , one out of five people that take advantage and benefit from the capital gains rate has an income below $ 50 , 000 .  fifty-eight percent of the people that have a benefit from that have an income below $ 100 , 000 .  the capital gains , i know these people , as other members do .  the janitor at school who has figured out how his renters help him pay for two rental houses , and every time the pipes freeze , he is crawling under that rental house .  it has depreciated down to where the value for tax purposes may not be very high , but it is everything that man or woman had been able to accumulate , and that person benefits greatly from this 15 percent rate .  why raise that rate back ?  why send a signal that that rate is going to go back ?  the dividend tax , six times as many companies are paying dividends to people that own the company today as were paying dividends in just 2003 when we made that change .  and the numbers are about the same .  for the dividend rates , one out of four people that benefit from that tax make under $ 50 , 000 .  fifty-nine percent of the people that benefit from that tax make under $ 100 , 000 .  those are the same people that on this floor yesterday we talked about how important it was they not be negatively affected by the alternative minimum tax .  i agree with that .  so did everybody but four people on the floor of the house that voted yesterday .  i agree that we ought to continue these tax policies that are working for america .  that means we need to reject the substitute , even a substitute from my good friend ( mr. rangel )  , and move to the underlying bill and keep this economy growing .  i appreciate my colleague from michigan , his leadership in helping boost our economy , extend this tax relief .  i strongly support the original bill over the substitute .  the substitute takes a step backward in how we treat our soldiers and how we treat our families , small businesses that are affected by the alternative minimum tax , compared to legislation that this house passed just yesterday , we treated soldiers better , by providing them immediate cash refunds on their tax treatment .  i do not want to step back from that today in the substitute .  we help 2 1/2 million more families and small businesses with their alternative minimum tax yesterday , again , almost nearly unanimously .  i do not want to step back from that with this substitute .  and the original bill provides three provisions that are really helpful for a lot of families in this country .  it extends for 1 year the sales tax deduction , which provides every family in the country a choice to deduct either their state and local income taxes or their state and local sales taxes .  what it means is sales taxes , as you know , add up a great deal , add up fast for families .  this tax relief just stretches the family paycheck a little farther and prevents hundreds of millions of dollars of tax increases on families that would start right after this christmas holiday .  that would be unfair .  the original bill extends this .  this also provides help to universities that receive dollars , higher education from the public higher education utility fund that extends a provision that helps mr. speaker , it is , i think , a terrible mistake to leave out tax relief for dividends .  these are the usually small amounts of money that go to people , many seniors , who have invested in a company ; and these are the dividends that help ease their retirement .  back a few years ago , we saw a number of wall street companies go under , the enrons , the worldcoms , all those dot-com technology companies .  they had big stock prices .  they had great pieces of paper saying they were wonderful companies , but the fact of the matter is they were built on thin air .  what we did under this legislation is we said to the companies , prove that you have a solid profit-and-loss statement , you have real assets , show us the money ; pay it out in dividends , we will lower the cost , lower the taxes on those dividends .  since we created this tax legislation , now fortune 500 companies , one out of four that did not provide dividends in the past , are now providing real money to real people who have invested in them .  in other words , we have changed the culture from what is good this quarter and what is good for my stock price to what is the best long term , real growth , solid businesses in america .  we have changed the culture of wall street because of this dividend tax relief .  it is very important we not go back to the bad old days of high stock prices but built on thin air .  we need businesses that are in it for the long term , that pay cash to real people , that when my mom or your mom or some other senior invests they know they are going to get a chance for a solid dividend that they can actually keep because they invested .  this dividend relief , mr. speaker , is vitally important .  i oppose the democrat substitute .  i support keeping in dividend relief , both for our seniors and our investors , and to keep wall street honest .  mr. speaker , i yield myself such time as i may consume .  i just want to point out to the members that yesterday the house passed the gulf opportunities zone act 415-4 which dealt with many items to help gulf coast area residents who had been hurt by the hurricane , incentives to help rebuild housing , investment to provide depreciation and expensing for small businesses , bonding authority so that tax-exempt bond authority could help rebuild devastated infrastructure in the hurricane zone .  so this house has acted to help hurricane victims .  mr. speaker , i yield myself such time as i may consume .  mr. speaker , i would say to my friend from new york that we have dealt with the amt issue .  in our legislation , we did not choose to raise taxes , as the gentleman 's substitute does , to the tune of $ 40 billion .  so because of that , the amt is done outside of the reconciliation process .  when i hear so many on the other side of the aisle talk about high-income earners , i remind members that many small businesses in the united states file as individuals .  so when they have this $ 40 billion tax increase , that is really on small businesses and the families that those small businesses support .  according to the treasury department , 80 percent of the people affected by the $ 40 billion tax increase in their substitute are small and entrepreneurial businesses .  that is the engine of job creation in america , and that is why our economy has recovered , because we have helped those small businesses .  mr. speaker , i reserve the balance of my time .  mr. speaker , and the $ 40 billion in taxes in the democrat substitute certainly will not give many americans a break .  mr. speaker , the current rate structure of the amt was created by the democrats in 1993 with no republicans supporting the bill .  mr. speaker , i yield myself 2 minutes .  actually , in a few minutes we will have a vote on two tax bills , and we have heard a lot of debate this afternoon about the two approaches the bill takes , and i certainly appreciate my friends on the other side for recognizing the need for tax relief .  in fact , in many important ways these bills are very similar .  twenty-two provisions in our underlying bill were taken by my friends on the other side and put into their bill .  i guess imitation is the sincerest form of flattery .  for example , the income tax deduction for state and local taxes ; the research and development tax credit , so important to our high-tech and manufacturing sectors of our economy ; the above-the-line deduction for higher education expenses ; and the bonds for school modernization equipment and teacher training ; as well as the enhanced charitable deduction for computer donations to schools .  these are provisions that we have that are the same .  what the democrat substitute does not include is the extension of a saver 's credit for low-income families ; the expensing for small businesses so small entrepreneurs can grow their companies , buy the equipment , increase their businesses and hire more people ; cleaning up brownfields sites so we can continue economic development in so many small towns and communities in our nation ; as well as helping our domestic manufacturers finance those large equipment sales overseas so we can export more .  also capital gains and dividends .  we have heard a great deal about that this afternoon .  that tax provision , that benefit , has helped 24 million american families in this country .  twenty-five percent of those families have incomes under $ 50 , 000 a year .  are those the rich we hear talked about so much on the other side ?  fifty-seven percent , almost 60 percent of the families have incomes under $ 100 , 000 a year .  are those the very rich our friends on the other side are so worried about us assisting ?  what is irresponsible is the part of the democrat substitute which raises taxes .  forty billion dollars in tax increases .  and 80 percent of those taxes , that tax burden , would fall on small entrepreneurial businesses .  i urge a vote against the substitute and in favor of the underlying bill .  mr. speaker , i rise in opposition to the substitute and in favor of the underlying bill .  i want to talk about some of the allegations that have been brought up in this debate .  one is the fact that perhaps by continuing the tax policies or extending the reduction in tax rate , especially in the area of tax dividends and capital gains tax , that somehow we are aggravating the deficit .  i think that the evidence is pretty conclusive that we have seen a tremendous stimulus and tremendous growth in revenues because of this tax policy .  if i could quote the chairman of the federal reserve board , back in june of this year he said : `` i do think that there are parts of the existing recent tax changes , especially with respect to eliminating part of the double taxation of dividends , which i think enhances economic growth , enhances the tax base and , therefore , tax revenues , and that it is good economic policy. '' the second point that i think is being made in favor of the substitute and opposing the underlying bill is saying that the extension of the reduction in tax rates on cap gains and dividends somehow is a tax cut for the rich .  i could not disagree more .  and , in fact , our own joint committee on taxation , on the amt extension 's impact , compares the two , the one that we acted on yesterday and the one today .  the amt extension impacts 14 million taxpayers ; 62 million taxpayers benefit from reduced rates on cap gains and dividends .  and per the most recent irs data , 96 percent of taxpayers hit by the amt in 2003 had adjusted gross incomes in excess of $ 100 , 000 .  so it is clear .  furthermore , the joint economic committee says that 60 percent of those paying capital gains taxes earn less than $ 50 , 000 annually ; 85 percent earn less than $ 100 , 000 annually .  this is about jobs .  this is about creating jobs for america 's families , and i urge rejection of the substitute and passage of the underlying bill .  mr. speaker , imagine if we could bring a piece of legislation to the floor of this house that would , over the next 30-month period of time , result in benefits that every american could share in .  things like increasing business investments by 25 percent , growing the value of the stock market by over $ 4 trillion .  creating 4.4 million new jobs .  reducing the unemployment from 6.3 to 5 percent .  having quarterly gdp grow at an average of 4.1 percent .  increase tax receipts by $ 274 billion over a 12-month period of time , a 15 percent increase , the largest in 25 years .  and decrease the deficit over that same 12-month period of time by over $ 100 billion .  mr. speaker , it would be hard to imagine that we would not all support that , but i guess it is not hard to imagine , given the conversation here today , but that is exactly what this body did when we passed tax relief in 2003 .  and today we are simply extending these pro-growth tax policies that have led to this historic economic growth .  i think , mr. speaker , we all understand the benefit of hindsight and history is full of valuable lessons .  i encourage my colleagues to use the benefits of hindsight and the facts of history to support this tax relief extension today and the policies that led undeniably to opportunities of growth and prosperity for every single american .  because not to do so , mr. speaker , is the thing that would be truly hard to imagine .  mr. speaker , i rise in strong support of this rule , and i thank and congratulate my great friend from florida , such a hardworking member of the rules committee , and i thank all those involved in this effort , which i hope at the end of the day will be bipartisan .  because we all know that of that proverbial saying that everyone is entitled to their own opinion but not their own facts .  as i listened to the pathetic , and that is really the only way you can describe it , the pathetic old class warfare , us versus them argument , cleaning yachts and mowing lawns and all this stuff .  the facts are 56.9 million american families , 56.9 million american families , nearly 60 percent of american families are members of the investor class .  the investor class , people who have some kind of investment .  and , mr. speaker , 30 percent , 30 percent of the members of the investor class earn less than i will tell you that if you look at the arguments that were made , and i listened to my good friend from rochester , ms. slaughter , in her opening statement in which she talked about investing in all these important things , of course we all want to invest in the future .  but she said , do not invest in the rich .  well , the fact of the matter is we are encouraging investment with this because we want to do everything we possibly can to make sure that those people who are out there creating jobs have the incentive to do that .  and we also need to look at long-term planning .  people can stand up and malign the dividend cuts and the capital gains cuts , but i actually believe we should have no tax on capital gains at all .  it is a double tax and , frankly , it discourages growth .  i will never forget a few years ago visiting new zealand , which is certainly a left of center government .  the prime minister there , prime minister clark , well , let us just say she is not what you would call center right .  but i met with a number of people in new zealand , and i raised with them the prospect of establishing a capital gains .  they have zero capital gains there .  they said that they did a study in new zealand and found that the mere establishment of a capital gains tax would be devastating to the economy of new zealand .  and all we are saying is we should allow people for another couple of years to plan at a 15 percent capital gains rate .  mr. speaker , we know , as we look at the arguments that were provided in 2001 , 2002 , 2003 , that our wonderful colleagues on the other side of the aisle regularly said the following things : number one , if you put into place these tax cuts , the economy is going to head straight into the tank .  and i listened to my friend from oregon go through the herbert hoover argument , and i thought we had sort of beaten that one back in the 2004 campaign when in the last 3 years we have seen the creation of 4 1/2 million jobs under the payroll survey guideline and 5 million jobs under the household survey guideline .  i thought we had pretty much beaten that argument back , but obviously , they are continuing to try and dredge this up .  they said that if we put into place this tax cut that the economy would go into the tank and the deficit would go sky high .  we know the exact opposite has been the case .  we , in fact , have had a reduction of $ 94 billion in the deficit simply because of economic growth , simply because of the enhanced flow of revenues to come into the federal treasury .  now , obviously , we are not going to see probably the best improvement in the deficit number next year because of hurricane katrina and other costs that we have faced , and we are doing everything we can , so many of us , to try to rein in mandatory spending with the reconciliation process we have gone through , and to try to do what we can on both discretionary as well as mandatory , as i said .  but the fact of the matter is , mr. speaker , the single most important thing that we can do to deal with the challenges of investing in all those things that ms. slaughter  mentioned , is to make sure that the economy continues to grow .  i can think of nothing , nothing worse for the potential future growth of our economy than to not pass this measure .  so if you believe in bringing unemployment down even further , if you believe in seeing the already record level of minority home ownership go even higher , if you believe in enhanced productivity and incentives for that , it is absolutely essential that this rule and this legislation be passed .  so i commend it to my colleagues .  the tired old arguments of the past are not carrying any weight at all with the american people , i am happy to say .  they get it .  they understand it .  so that is why we should have democrats join with republicans in doing the right thing here .  mr. speaker , i rise in strong support of this very modest tax relief proposal and the rule that brings it to the floor , and especially in support of the deduction for state and local sales taxes which is so very important to my home state of tennessee and many millions of people throughout this nation .  every day we read stories about how wasteful the federal government is , and certainly it has been proven over and over again how the least efficient , most wasteful way to spend money is to turn it over to the federal government .  every dollar we can keep in the private sector helps to create jobs and lower prices .  and who benefits the most from job creation and lower prices : the poor and the lower-income and the working people .  the wealthy are always going to be all right , but this is a bill that helps the poor and the lower-income and the working people more than anybody else .  it contains breaks for the rich like tax deductions for teacher classroom expenses , expenses that classroom teachers pay out of their own pockets .  it contains another deduction for the rich for deducting tuition expenses .  that is certainly a deduction for the wealthy ; and , of course , i am saying that sarcastically .  it contains expensing for brownfield environmental cleanups , something that is very good for the environment .  it contains breaks for our veterans and those who have been and are in combat at this time .  it contains increases for small businesses , and certainly that is something that is very , very important to millions of people throughout this country .  mr. speaker , this is a very modest proposal .  i think it is about a 2 percent tax break .  i urge passage of this bill .  mr. speaker , today we have the opportunity to pass a bill that i believe will provide a powerful tonic for continued economic growth as a precedent for social justice .  since 2003 , when much of the current tax policies were enacted , our gdp has seen its fastest growth in 20 years , averaging a robust 4.4 percent growth per quarter .  this growth , mr. speaker , is attributable in part to reduced rates on capital gains and dividends .  i would like to highlight who in the real world is receiving these reduced rates and , therefore , whose taxes we will be raising if we fail to extend these existing policies .  mr. speaker , 54 percent of those families receiving dividend income had incomes of less than $ 75 , 000 , and they received an average of $ 1 , 400 in dividends .  today , families with incomes under $ 100 , 000 have more than $ 20 billion in dividend income .  in 2005 , an estimated 10.3 million families in the 10 and 15 percent tax brackets will save on their taxes because of the existing tax policies .  so the rhetoric that this tax relief only benefits the wealthy is vacant , ideological posturing .  to let these rates expire would simply be a tax increase on the productive sector of the american economy .  not only would the lapse of the reduced rates impose a tax increase ; it would particularly discourage equity ownership among working families , among whom we have seen a 91 percent increase in stock ownership .  to turn back the clock on our tax policies that have benefited american workers and encourage more american workers to own a stake in their future is simply the wrong thing to do .  mr. speaker , those who oppose this legislation are asking for a perverse tax increase on the seed corn of our economy and are suggesting that we impose a drag on economic growth at a time when we need it the most .  we can not afford not to pass this legislation today if we are serious about growing our economy .  mr. speaker , i thank the gentleman for yielding me time .  i rise to support the underlying bill and to oppose the democratic substitute .  the numbers three , four , and five come to mind .  three is basically a reflection of what our inflation rate is at ; four for the percentage of which our economy is growing on an annual basis ; and five for unemployment rate that exists in this country with historic lows .  one way we can ensure that that number five comes even lower and that number four goes even higher is to support the underlying legislation .  why ?  because it is proven to work .  when you reduce the taxes and the penalties on the accumulation of capital , what we see is an economy that grows .  so whether you are a small business owner in staten island or a small business owner in san francisco , you are able to put more people to work and we watch our economy grow and grow and grow .  my concern with the democratic substitute is multi-fold .  one is if you are sitting at home , for example , and you are waiting for your retirement , and in several years when your nest egg is about a half a million dollars , which is not that much money anymore for some folks i know living across the country , if the democratic substitute prevails , you are looking at basically sending another check for $ 25 , 000 to the federal government .  that is if you support the substitute .  in addition , if you happen to be receiving dividends , and i know many people across the country in so-called investor class receive dividends on a regular basis , if the democratic substitute prevails , you will be paying upwards of 20 percent more in taxes to the federal government .  not to mention the fact that the amt , which penalizes upwards of 80 percent of the people i know who filed in staten island and brooklyn , are getting punished by the amt , the democratic substitute does not adequately address what the house passed yesterday .  in conclusion , if we are for a pro-growth economy , if we are for bringing the unemployment rate down even further , if we are watching for our economy to grow even greater , if we are basically placing our faith in the american people and the entrepreneurs and the small business owners across country , let us not punish them with higher capital gains rates and dividend rates .  mr. speaker , i would like to thank my friend and colleague on the rules committee for allowing me this opportunity to speak on behalf of this rule and the underlying bill , h.r. 4297 , the tax relief extension reconciliation act .  today , each and every member of this house is taking a test before the american people .  this test has one question , and simply enough , it is even multiple choice .  the question is : who do you trust more to spend your hard-earned money ?  is it , a , the federal government and its bloated bureaucracy ; or is it , b , the american people ?  well , mr. speaker , the correct answer , obviously , is , b , the american people .  however , those who vote against this rule and vote against this tax relief bill are choosing to trust the federal government and its bloated bureaucracy over the people who pay the taxes and are the engine of a job-creating economy .  now , mr. speaker , the opponents of this tax relief will try to obscure and confuse this debate by mischaracterizing this house 's previous vote on budget reform and reduction with claims of , and i have already heard it , robbing the poor to pay the rich .  well , mr. speaker , these claims are simply untrue .  in fact , today 's reconciliation package includes extensions of tax incentives that provide work for many low-income americans , such as the welfare to work tax credit and the work opportunity tax credit that encourages businesses to hire and pay people and families on public assistance , high-risk youths , qualified veterans , and people who receive food stamps .  so a vote against this tax relief package is tantamount to a vote for an economy under which it is acceptable and even preferred to give the poorest individuals only one option , government dependency , a dependency that empowers bureaucrats and politicians over people and places political power before economic liberty and opportunity .  mr. speaker , i would also like to add that since this tax relief package includes mostly extensions of current tax cuts and credits , a vote against this bill is a vote simply to raise taxes .  no ifs , ands , or buts , those who vote against this bill are voting in front of the american people to raise taxes .  the opponents of this bill would raise taxes on middle-income americans , rich americans , poor americans , investors , savers , entrepreneurs , small business owners , universities , veterans , and even people who are trying to clean up the environment .  all of these people will receive a tax increase if this bill is not passed and signed into law .  so , mr. speaker , each and every member of this house has an opportunity today to go on record and tell the american people where they stand on raising taxes and whether they trust the american people with their own money .  in conclusion , i would like to encourage my colleagues to support this rule and the underlying tax relief extension package for the sake of economic growth and for the sake of the american taxpayer .  mr. speaker , i thank the chairman for yielding me time .  mr. speaker , i rise in support of h.r. 4297 because this legislation will ensure that our economy will continue to expand .  that is right , expand .  if you would listen to those on the other side of the aisle , you would think that we are in a shrinking economy .  however , since the capital gains and dividend taxes were reduced in 2003 , we have seen ten straight quarters of what is it ?  growth .  now , what does growth mean ?  it means more jobs .  it means more opportunity .  i spoke recently with an entrepreneur group back home , women who started businesses in their homes .  most of them have children and did not want to be out of the house all the time , very small businesses .  and you know what they said to me their top priority is ?  make sure you extend the capital gains cuts .  make sure you make sure you pass legislation that will prevent a tax increase .  that is what we are doing today .  preventing a tax increase on these entrepreneurs who , one by one , are creating new jobs in our economy .  the national economy has produced impressive growth .  our pro-growth policy will continue only if we do not increase taxes .  in the 10 quarters prior to the passage of this legislation , we averaged just 1.2 percent of growth , never exceeded 2.9 .  in the 10 quarters since , we have averaged 3.3 percent of growth and have averaged over 4 percent .  now , i think 4 percent growth is better than 1 percent growth .  and if we do not continue this tax situation and increase taxes , we will see our growth go away .  what does this mean , this business investment that happens because of the capital gains reduction , the dividends reduction ?  it means new jobs .  in a district like mine where we need new jobs , and i know some members on the other side of the aisle apparently have more jobs than they need , we need jobs .  this climate is the climate we need for growth .  we have seen , in fact , unemployment go from 6.1 percent down over 1 point to 5 percent .  despite challenges that this country has faced over the last couple of years , including terrorist attacks and natural disasters , we have still seen an increase of job creation .  now , if anybody at the end of august and the beginning of september expected that we would see 215 , 000 jobs created in the united states in the last month , i do not think you are telling me the truth .  but the good climate that was created by those cuts made it happen .  we need to continue good policy .  we need to realize what good policy is .  good policy is allowing the people to invest their money , create jobs , create a strong economy and create job growth .  i urge my colleagues to continue this situation and not allow a tax increase on the american public .  mr. speaker , i rise in opposition to the democrat substitute .  this proposal actually does not continue some very important provisions for low income americans .  it does not extend a savers credit which actually allows a match for savings for poorer people by the government .  their substitute does not include an expensing provision for small businesses that allows them to use more of their money instead of sending it to the government so that they can grow their business and create jobs .  it does not allow a provision that provides tax benefits to those who clean up brownfield sites to encourage new job creation in some of our older towns .  it does not include the most important provision , which is the reduced rate on capital gains and dividends that has created all of these new jobs .  now , you do not have to be an economist to understand these lines .  on the left-hand side , you see all the bars below the line .  on the right-hand side , all the bars are above the line .  and what do those bars represent ?  well , on the first half it is from january 2001 until we passed the capital gains and dividends tax reductions .  interestingly enough , taxes were high , investment was low .  these bars show job losses .  all of the bars underneath the line are job losses .  we passed the capital gains cut , the dividends cut , what happens ?  businesses save more of their money , reinvest , create jobs .  all the bars above the line , they show an average job gain , per month , since we passed the capital gains and dividends cuts of 148 , 700 jobs .  that is just an average .  as you can see , some months were higher than others , but across the board we created almost 150 , 000 jobs a month as a result of a provision that the democrat substitute would cancel .  i urge my colleagues to cancel the democrat substitute .  mr. speaker , i rise in strong support of the legislation precisely because of the challenges outlined by my friend from mississippi .  as my friend from michigan just pointed out , yesterday this house took steps to reignite the engines of economic opportunity , to deal with job creation and getting help to the people of the gulf coast .  i would assure this house , mr. speaker , this is not some sort of abstraction .  as my friend from mississippi knows , brother rex yancey , the pastor of first baptist church in pascagoula , is my wife 's uncle .  this is not some sort of statistic or abstraction .  just as brother rex and everyone in mississippi and on the gulf coast are facing challenges , we need to work together to make sure the climate of economic opportunity exists for all .  just as heartfelt as his concern is for his constituents , mr. speaker , i must correct the record .  it does this house no service to come to this well , no matter the challenges confronted , and try to claim either class warfare or crass political opportunism in a quid pro quo .  it is beneath the dignity of every member of this house to suggest that somehow this has to do with contributions .  as my friend from mississippi knows , the most philanthropic state in the union where people step up to help neighbors in need , that example does not fall on deaf ears .  i will say economic opportunity is important , not only for wall street , not only for main street but for your street , mr. speaker , for every street because we understand economic opportunity is not exclusive .  there may be some who believe that this modern economy is some sort of caste system .  there may be some who always want to fill in the blank as follows : tax breaks for the blank , tax breaks for the rich .  that is their story and they are sticking to it .  no hope , no opportunity when the facts are otherwise .  we have had solid economic growth .  revenues to the government have actually increased .  and not only has there been some $ 69 billion in immediate hurricane relief given by this congress and this government to the storm victims , but the promise of future help and economic prosperity as the people of the gulf coast get back on their feet .  stand up for growth and opportunity .  pass this legislation .  mr. speaker , i certainly thank the gentlewoman for yielding and certainly appreciate her leadership in this body on helping promote policies that promote economic growth in jobs and being a true leader in trying to help reform government programs that too often take away from family programs because they are wasteful , they are duplicative , they are inefficient , there is no accountability .  she is one of the true leaders in congress on these issues .  mr. speaker , there is a lot of good news that americans have tonight .  clearly , this nation faces a number of challenges and we know about them , and families are still struggling to meet high energy costs .  yet this republican congress has been bold in enacting new energy legislation to help address that .  families still have challenges in the high cost of health care , but this republican congress is doing things to help bring down the costs , particularly for small businesses and to make it easier to see a doctor in america as opposed to sue a doctor in america .  but although we still face a number of challenges , as we have just have come away from our great thanksgiving holiday , we need to remember the things that we need to give thanks for and all the good things that are happening in america .  one of the things that i do not think a sufficient number of americans appreciate is just how great this economy is today .  it is absolutely amazing , mr. speaker , that this economy , not this government , not this government but the economy , men and women all over the nation , rolling up their sleeves and risking capital , have gone out and created over 4 million new jobs since president bush 's economic growth program was enacted by this republican congress .  that is over 4 million new taxpaying jobs , jobs with a future , jobs that allow the american families to create their housing program , their nutritional program , their health care program , and their educational program .  that is incredibly good news .  we have now had 2 1/2 , 2 1/2 years where the economy has grown at over 3 percent a quarter .  that is just unparalleled historic economic growth that is helping elevate and enrich the lives of millions and millions of americans and allowing them to take care of their families and for them to realize their american dream .  now , another aspect that too many people do not realize , because some people , particularly the democrats , tell us that tax relief is a bad thing for the american people , that tax relief somehow hurts the deficit , well , we know that the deficit is too high .  but guess what ?  the deficit has been falling .  and why ?  i wish it were because spending was decreasing here .  we are fighting those battles .  but tonight we are here to talk about the values of tax relief and how important it is that we prevent a democrat tax increase .  and if we do not act this week , we will have yet another huge democrat tax increase on the american people .  the american people do not realize , or perhaps not enough of them realize , that in washington , dc , spending is forever and tax relief is temporary .  unless we enact legislation this week , there will be an automatic tax increase on the american people .  and besides what that is going to do to the american family , it will hurt the deficit .  tax relief has proven to be part of the deficit solution , not part of the deficit problem .  well , i thank the gentleman from georgia for his insight , and i certainly appreciate his bringing the chart because it dramatically illustrates this phenomena : that if you will simply allow the american people to keep more of what they earn , allow small businesses to keep more of what they earn , they will roll up their sleeves and expand .  they are going to go out and create a new transmission repair shop on one street corner or a new barbecue stand on another corner .  somebody will have the capital to finally go out and maybe create the new generation of some revolutionary new software .  but you can not have the benefits of capitalism without capital .  and the democrats on this side of the aisle , they want to take away the people 's capital .  they want to feed this wasteful washington bureaucracy .  they want to grow the federal budget .  we want to grow the family budget .  and when we do , jobs are created .  and guess what ?  people go to work and they pay more taxes .  as the gentleman knows , it is not just us creating figures out of thin air .  it is not just somebody 's opinion .  it is fact .  i hold in my hand here the latest report from the u.s. treasury .  this is the treasury report .  what does it tell us ?  it tells us that from last year individual income taxes , after we decreased the rates , we decreased the rates , guess what ?  individual income tax revenues rose almost 15 percent .  corporate income taxes .  corporate income taxes .  we cut their rates , and guess what ?  they paid more taxes .  there was almost 47 percent more tax revenue from corporate income taxes once we cut the rates .  again , you can not have capitalism without capital .  so what we need to do is we have to work this week to prevent that automatic democrat tax increase .  increasing taxes , sending more money to washington , that is going to ultimately fuel our deficit .  and the american people inherently know that when it comes to the fiscal challenges that we face , it is not because the american people are undertaxed ; it is because washington spends too much .  well , this is an excellent line of debate that the gentlewoman is developing here .  and again it is very important that the american people know this week we do not have a bill on the floor to provide tax relief for the american people .  we have a bill on the floor to prevent a democrat tax increase .  there will be an automatic tax increase on the american people if we do not pass this legislation , and one of the things that we will lose is the ability of small businesses to expense what we call depreciable assets up to $ 100 , 000 .  now , before i became a member of congress , i was a small businessman .  i have gone out there , i have rolled up my sleeves , and i have risked capital .  i have signed the front of a paycheck .  i helped start a business that had a dozen employees , and it was not easy .  it was not easy .  we could not have started that business without capital .  yet the democrats want to take away our ability to form capital and create small businesses , which is the job engine of america .  that is where all the new jobs come from , is small business .  now , what is going to happen if we lose this ?  let me give one example , one story from my congressional district .  i am very proud to have the ability to represent the fifth congressional district of texas .  it starts in east dallas and goes through great communities like mesquite .  it takes in rural east texas , which is a wonderful place to live and raise a family , but sometimes a tough place to make a living .  i went to visit a business , small business called jacksonville industries , in my congressional district , located in jacksonville , tx .  they are a zinc and die cast business , and i do not totally understand what they do ; but they had 20 employees when i went to visit them .  well , due to competitive pressures , prior to being able to benefit from our tax relief economic growth program , they were on the verge of having to lay off two people .  now , that is 10 percent of their workforce .  they were going to have to lay off 2 of 20 workers .  thanks to this provision , small business expensing that we passed way back , they were able to go out and buy a new piece of machinery .  now , i do not recall what it is called or precisely what its function was , but i know what it did .  it made them more competitive .  and instead of laying off two workers , they hired three new workers .  and that is one small business in one rural part of texas , but that is happening all over the nation .  we are allowing families and small businesses to keep more of what they earn , and yet the democrats want to take that away from them .  they want to take that capital back .  we were talking earlier about how do you cut tax rates and increase tax revenue .  think about this one example in jacksonville industries .  they were getting ready to lay off two workers , and they end up hiring three because they are more efficient and keep more of what they earn and buy new equipment and machinery .  that is five people that could have been on unemployment and food stamps and welfare , five people taking from the federal treasury because they had dire needs .  but instead of five people taking from the treasury , it is five people paying into the industry .  that is how it happens .  that is how you cut tax rates and increase revenues .  that is five americans who are putting a roof over their family 's head and start putting money in the college fund .  that is the difference that this has made .  and yet the democrats want , at christmastime , if you can believe that , want to present the american people with a big , fat tax increase .  mr. speaker , that is a very important point .  i know when this debate takes place tomorrow , and we have heard about so many of the great tax relief provisions which have been passed for american families and small business , and how they are going to be taken away tomorrow if we do not defeat this democrat tax increase , but the capital gains and dividends , we know the rhetoric .  the class warfare rhetoric of our friends on the other side of the aisle , we know it is coming .  yet i sit here and i think they claim they love jobs , they just seem to hate the people who create them .  capital gains and dividends is all about investment .  again , you can not have the benefits of capitalism and job creation without that capital in the first place .  since i was quite young , i have held a number of jobs in my life .  my first job , i come from an agricultural family .  we raised poultry .  frankly , my first job in life was cleaning out chicken houses .  it was a job i did not want to hold for later on .  later i bussed tables at the holiday inn in college station , texas .  i used to be a desk clerk at the ramada inn .  i used to load windows at a window factory in bryan , texas .  i am trying to live it down , but i actually practiced law once .  i was an officer in two different corporations .  the point i am making is of all of the jobs i have had , i have always tried to work hard and tried to learn something and tried to improve myself and move up that ladder .  and guess what , in all of the jobs i have had , no poor person ever hired me .  no poor person ever hired me .  it was somebody who had managed to amass some capital , and he or she went out and risked that capital in a business enterprise that succeeded and because of that i got a job .  i received a paycheck .  again , you can not love jobs and hate the people who create them .  by trying to increase the taxes on capital gains and dividends , you are attacking investors , you are attacking job creators and you are taking away jobs from american families , and that is wrong and that is another reason we must defeat this democrat tax increase tomorrow .  mr. speaker , over half of americans are invested in the stock market .  they do have some form of dividend or capital gains and it is really their nest egg .  those are the 401 ( k ) plans to help them in their retirement years .  that is money that is put away for education for their children , and yet our democrat colleagues on the other side of the aisle want to tax away that dream .  they want to tax away that nest egg by passing a huge tax increase tomorrow .  that is over half of americans in just this one provision .  just this one provision would see a huge tax increase right before christmas if we do not defeat this democrat tax increase tomorrow .  mr. speaker , i appreciate again the gentlewoman yielding , and i appreciate her point that is so important that tax relief has driven job creation .  you take away the tax relief , as our democrat colleagues are trying to do , and you end up taking away the jobs .  let me again return to my congressional district .  as i said earlier this evening , how proud i am that i have the honor of representing the fifth congressional district in texas .  there is a small business there named hugh dublin , who has a company called east texas right of way .  he has been in business for 8 years .  he works hard .  his company specializes in the leasing and purchasing of right of ways for different corporate clients .  before we passed tax relief , his company had two full-time employees .  that is a small business .  but thanks to tax relief , his business expanded and he went out and hired two more .  he hired a gentleman by the name of dan and another gentleman by the name of david .  they were unemployed .  but thanks to the tax relief package , they got jobs in a business that was growing .  but yet this week , the democrats want to increase taxes on hugh dublin and east texas right of way .  they want to take away the paychecks of dan and david and replace them with welfare checks , and they call that compassion .  let me tell you another example .  there is a gentleman in my congressional district named eddie alexander .  he has a small business called triple s electric .  it is an electrical contracting business for residential and commercial .  for the past 3 1/2 years , he worked alone and he had one part-time helper .  but thanks to the boom in the economy brought about by tax relief , and we have not even talked about the fact that we have the highest rate of homeownership in the history of america and each and every one of those homes needs electricity , since the economic growth package with tax relief was passed , he went out and hired two full-time employees .  he hired a gentleman by the name of jarad , who was unemployed and he hired a gentleman by the name of john , who was also unemployed in henderson county , texas .  now all of a sudden , the democrats want to raise taxes on eddie alexander and triple s electric .  and it is just so important that everybody realize this connection between preserving tax relief , preventing a tax increase and preserving our jobs .  again , over 4 million new jobs created in this economy since we passed tax relief .  why would we want to go back ?  why would we want to take that tax relief away and pass a huge tax increase , because that affects real people all across america .  let me give you another example .  i talked earlier about the fact that we are enjoying the highest rate of homeownership in the history of the united states of america .  i mean , home ownership , part and parcel of the american dream .  well , somebody has to go out and help renovate those homes and build new homes .  and one of those gentleman is in my congressional district back in texas , a gentleman by the name of gil travers of travers and company .  he is a home builder .  prior to us passing the economic growth legislation with the tax relief , he had just a handful of workers ; but once we passed the tax relief , he had to hire extra workers .  he hired a lady named jan , who was unemployed , to help him clean up some of his job sites .  she got so busy that she had to hire two people who were unemployed to help her clean up the job site , a gentleman by the name of calvin and another lady by the name of christy , all because of tax relief .  and yet this week the democrats want to raise taxes on travers and company home builders .  they want to jeopardize the pay checks of jan and calvin and christy and replace them with welfare checks , and they call that compassion .  well , again , it illustrates just how valuable the tax relief has been to our economy .  we have spoken this evening at length about over 4 million new jobs .  four million new jobs in the future that have been created .  four million new paychecks .  that is what compassion is all about .  compassion is not measured by the number of welfare checks that are printed in washington .  it is measured by the number of paychecks that are printed all over the united states of america .  our gdp growth , 2 1/2 years straight where each and every quarter of economic growth has been over 3 percent .  we have consumer spending that is advancing , advanced 4.2 percent during the third quarter .  retail sales are up .  real disposable income for our working families is up since we passed the tax relief package in our economic growth legislation .  and manufacturing , which has faced many , many challenges in recent years , manufacturing production is continuing to expand .  we have increases in productivity , and the list goes on and on and on .  and all of this is threatened if we permit the democrats to offer their christmas gift to the american people , a huge tax increase ; and that is why it is so vital , so vital tomorrow that we do not allow that to happen .  mr. speaker , unless we enact h.r. 4297 , americans will receive a most unwelcomed christmas gift from the democrats : a huge automatic tax increase .  this will cost families billions of their dollars and jeopardize millions of their jobs .  we can not sit idly by and let the democrats do this .  tax relief has already created more than 4.4 million new jobs ; but if you raise taxes , you start taking these jobs away .  mr. speaker , let me tell you about a few of the jobs from my east texas district that could be lost if the democrats succeed in their tax increase plan today .  let me tell you about hugh dublin who owns east texas right of way in tennessee colony , texas .  he specializes in the land-leasing business .  due to tax relief , his company has grown from two full-time employees to four full-time employees and four part-timers .  his two new full-time employees are named dan and david .  they were unemployed , but now they are able to start new careers in a growing business .  the democrats want to raise taxes on hugh dublin and his small business .  they want to jeopardize dan 's and david 's paychecks and replace them with welfare checks , and they call that compassion .  eddie alexander owns triple s electric in henderson county , texas .  they are an electrical contracting business .  for the first 3 1/2 years he was in business , it was just him and one part-time helper .  since the passage of the president 's economic growth plan , he has been able to hire two more additional employees named jarad and john , both of whom were out of work but both of whom now provide homes for their families .  the democrats now want to raise taxes on eddie alexander and his small business .  they want to jeopardize jarad 's and john 's paychecks and replace them with welfare checks ; and this they call compassion .  gill travers owns travers & amp ; company .  they are a home building company in athens , texas .  thanks to the housing boom created by president bush 's tax relief plan , travers & amp ; company has had to hire three new workers .  jan , who was previously unemployed , was hired to help clean up the job sites .  business is so good she had to turn around and hire calvin and christy .  they were unemployed , too .  the democrats now want to raise taxes on gill travers and his small business .  they want to jeopardize jan , calvin , and christy 's paychecks and replace them with welfare checks ; and this they call compassion .  mr. speaker , tax relief has created over 4.4 million new tax-paying jobs of the future ; 4.4 million hard-working americans can now provide for their families this christmas .  more than just providing food and shelter , these jobs are providing newfound hope and opportunity .  the democrats would take all of this away .  we can not go back .  we must prevent this massive democrat tax increase .  we must support jobs and support the rule for h.r. 4297 .  mr. speaker , unless we enact h.r. 4297 and defeat the democratic substitute , americans will receive a most unwelcome christmas gift from the democrats , a huge automatic tax increase .  this will cost families billions of dollars and jeopardize millions of their jobs .  mr. speaker , let me tell you just about a few of those jobs that could be lost in my east texas district if the democrats have their way in raising taxes .  hugh dublin owns a small business called east texas right of way in my district .  he specializes in the leasing of land .  due to tax relief , his company has grown from two full-time employees to four full-time employees .  his two new employees are called dan and david .  they were unemployed .  they were out of work .  but due to the expansion of this business , they were able to start new careers .  the democrats now want to raise taxes on hugh dublin and his small business .  they want to jeopardize dan and david 's paychecks and replace them with welfare checks , and this they call compassion .  eddie alexander owns triple s electric in henderson , texas , an electrical contracting business .  since the passage of our economic growth program with tax relief , he has been able to hire two more full-time employees , jared and john , both of whom were out of work , but both now provide homes for their families .  the democrats want to raise taxes on eddie alexander and his small business .  they want to jeopardize jared and john 's paychecks and replace them with welfare checks , and this they call compassion .  gil travers owns travers & amp ; company , a home building company in athens , texas .  due to the housing boom from tax relief , they have had to hire three new workers , jan , calvin and christy .  they were all previously unemployed .  they have been hired to help clean up all of the job sites from the new homes .  but the democrats now want to raise taxes on gil travers and his small business .  they want to jeopardize jan 's , calvin 's , and christy 's paychecks and replace them with welfare checks , and this they call compassion .  mr. speaker , tax relief has credited 4.4 million new tax-paying jobs with a future : 4.4 million hardworking americans can now provide for their families this christmas .  and more than just providing food and shelter , these jobs are providing new-found hope and opportunity .  we can not go back .  we must prevent this democratic tax increase .  mr. speaker , today 's legislation contains a number of important tax relief provisions , including an expanded research and development credit to keep american innovation competitive ; and one supported by my friend from wisconsin , paul ryan , which would adjust the qualified veterans mortgage bond program and expand access to affordable home loans for california veterans who served after 1977 .  in addition , the bill before us includes a measure that i have long supported to facilitate greater small business growth .  small businesses are the backbone of our economy , representing over half of all jobs and economic output .  the section 17 extension in this bill will enable small businesses to write off new capital investment up to $ 100 , 000 per year , spurring further economic growth and helping to generate new jobs .  in 2003 alone , 4.6 million small businesses used $ 44.1 billion of section 179 expensing .  according to the national federation of independent businesses ' november report , 61 percent of small business owners reported capital outlays over the past 6 months , including new equipment and vehicle purchases , furniture purchases , existing facility expansion , and improvement in new facility construction .  small business expensing works and it helps drive job creation in areas like my own northern california congressional district .  unfortunately , the current expensing limits are set to return to significantly lower levels if we do not extend this provision .  mr. speaker , i would like to thank chairman thomas and the members of the committee for their support of small businesses , and i urge my colleagues to vote for the legislation before us today .  mr. speaker , i thank the gentleman for yielding me time .  mark twain is probably the most famous constituent from my district and i think it was his quote that said , `` there are lies , there are damn lies , and there are statistics. '' i would say probably folks that are back in my district are home from school today because we had snow .  maybe people are taking a break from christmas shopping and tuning into the debate , and i suspect folks are a little perplexed and a little confused .  i do not know what the middle class is in los angeles or cleveland or new york city or baltimore or seattle ; but i think that at least in my congressional district , if a family is making about $ 50 , 000 a year , they probably think themselves to be middle class .  the democratic substitute for that sector of folks making $ 50 , 000 or less , the democratic substitute helps less than 200 , 000 taxpayers .  less than 200 , 000 taxpayers are helped by the democratic substitute that are trying to sit around the kitchen table and pay their bills , wondering how they are going to pay for christmas presents for their kids .  if we extend the capital gains and dividend tax rate , almost 8 million american taxpayers making $ 50 , 000 or less , the underlying bill , nearly 8 million taxpayers will be benefited , and i think the choice is clear .  now , let me say to my friend , and he is my friend from maryland , he talked about failed economic policies .  well , over the last 2 years , since capital gains and dividends reductions were put into law , we have averaged a 4 percent growth to our gdp .  4 , 400 , 000 jobs have been added to our economy .  homeownership is up at an all-time high .  government revenues have increased 10 percent a year since the reduction in the cost of capital .  the gentleman from maryland talks about priorities .  earlier we heard from the chairman of the democratic congressional campaign committee , and in his usual acerbic way , brought up the specter of politics .  the chairman of the dccc talked about politics with his usual acerbic , and yet what i find interesting as we get close to the conclusion of this debate , there has been a very concerted effort by my friend from maryland to reach out to the business community in an effort to make some political gains in the 2006 election .  after the cafta vote , when only 14 of our colleagues on the other side voted for increasing our opportunities for trade .  there has been somewhat of a , reported at least , concerted effort to reach out to the business community .  this will be an interesting vote because we have with the democratic substitute a tax increase of $ 40 billion on businesses .  and the underlying bill which , in fact , continues to reduce the cost of capital , so are we going to deny enhanced expensing for farmers and manufacturers ?  are we going to tell those laborers and manufacturing companies not to purchase , not to invest , not to expand their plants .  that is the choice .  and for those again that at least talk to the business community , i think the choice is clear .  reject the substitute and vote for the underlying bill .  mr. speaker , i rise today in support of the tax relief extension act .  let me make absolutely clear what this bill does .  the bill will prevent automatic tax increases on millions of americans and their families .  unless congress acts , individuals will pay higher taxes on their savings ; businesses will lose valuable incentives to provide research in the united states ; small businesses will lose the ability to expense new equipment , essential to the support of new employees .  these are all benefits taxpayers have today , and our bill simply preserves them .  the bill does not increase taxes .  the bill does not reduce taxes .  the bill merely preserves the current tax policy that has driven 4.3 percent growth and is creating millions of new jobs .  according to the irs in my home state of connecticut , there are 550 , 000 taxpayers who receive dividend income ; 153 , 000 of those have incomes below $ 30 , 000 a year .  right now they pay 5 percent taxes on dividend incomes .  in 2008 low-income taxpayers will pay zero taxes on dividend income .  if we fail to act , however , they will pay taxes as high as 25 percent .  a widow living on $ 30 , 000 a year could see her tax bill increase by $ 1 , 200 a year .  that would be wrong .  this bill needs to be passed .  it deserves to be passed .  it also needs to be passed and deserves to be passed because it extends and enhances the r & amp ; d tax credit .  at a time when other nations are providing or have provided permanent and richer incentives for research , we need to recognize the job-producing benefits of this tax credit .  mr. speaker , we remain a world leader in patents and discoveries , but other nations are closing in .  advances in technology and innovation are what drive growth and ultimately create higher standards of living for all of us .  we need to ask ourselves , do we want the next major scientific breakthrough to happen in germany or china ?  do we want other countries to be the leaders in the patents for the next generation of technology ?  finally , i would be remiss if i failed to mention incentives for small business expensing .  small business is the engine of our economy .  our bill allows small businesses to immediately expense up to $ 100 , 000 of equipment .  when we first adopted this provision , we saw investment in equipment skyrocket , go right straight up .  lowering the cost of capital encourages small businesses to invest in machines , trucks , and other equipment and hire new people .  with 25 million small businesses accounting for two of three new jobs created , expensing supports these small businesses .  mr. speaker , i urge passage of this legislation .  mr. speaker , i am pleased to rise today in support of this bill and the resilient american economy .  this act will build on our legacy of tax relief that is fueling our economy , and will extend some very important tax provisions that will keep america 's economy moving forward .  freedom and free enterprise go hand-in-hand .  and keeping tax rates low so people have more of their hard-earned money in their pockets is the right way to go .  texans want , need , and deserve to have their sales tax deduction extended .  it is vitally important for texas .  in texas , we like to say `` no new taxes. '' we finance our spending through a sales tax .  in 2004 , we made sales taxes deductible from federal taxes again , but that deduction expires in just a few weeks .  my constituents want to keep the sales tax deduction .  this bill will allow any american to choose to deduct either state sales tax or their state income tax through 2006 .  that is a great idea .  next , this bill extends the popular research and experiment tax credit .  luckily , we fine-tuned it to make it work even better .  many companies in our districts will be able to use this new alternative simplified credit .  they will be able to add good research and create new jobs because of it .  this extension and expansion of the credit are great for american jobs and our economy .  finally , we must extend the tax rate reduction on capital gains and dividends .  this pro-growth policy helped spark the economy that we are seeing today .  people and companies need to have some certainty for making decisions about long-term capital gains and dividend policy .  forcing folks to work with short-sighted tax policy just does not make sense .  we have to change that if we want to see our economy stay the course .  mr. speaker , i am proud to support this bill and urge my colleagues to support it .  mr. speaker , i thank the gentleman for yielding me time .  mr. speaker , it is a curious application of tax benefits that have been left out of the minority substitute .  let me just go over a few of those because i think you will agree with me that it is curious which ones are left out .  the savers credit for low income families .  my friends on the other side of the aisle continually stand up for low income families and to their credit , why on earth would they leave out a strong incentive for low income families to save ?  they do .  they leave out the savers credit .  and that goes only to lower income families in this country .  generally , those on the other side of the aisle harp about the -- i will not say evils , but the excess profits , some of the bad things that big business does in this country , and yet they leave out the tax benefit for small businesses in this country , something known as section 179 , expensing to help small businesspeople cope with the costs of keeping their businesses up to date , modernizing their businesses so that they can compete , so they can compete in the market place , sometimes with those big bad businesses .  they leave that out .  tax benefits for cleaning up brownfield sites .  brownfield sites are dirty sites , polluted sites where business has gone away .  there is pollution there .  they are usually the champions of the environment , cleaning up the environment .  but they leave out that tax benefit to encourage cleaning up these dirty polluted sites .  very curious .  now , certainly there are a couple that they leave out that i can understand .  they leave out an extension of the active finance section of subpart f. that is a lot of big words .  what that means is this particular tax provisional allows companies in this country who conduct financial operations to compete on a level playing field with their competitors overseas .  that is what this does that they leave out of their bill .  it allows american companies to compete effectively with companies overseas .  they leave that out .  but then they , as i said , they do not particularly like big business .  the one that gave them the most glee , of course , by leaving it out was capital gains and dividends .  you have heard all the rhetoric , and i am sure you are confused about who benefits from these .  the joint tax committee , the committee that is vested with crunching the numbers in this congress , has produced these statistics : for the capital gains tax , one in five americans who claims capital gains on his tax return has income below $ 50 , 000 .  fifty-eight percent of those who claim capital gains on their tax return have incomes below $ 100 , 000 .  somewhat different from the statistics you have heard from the other side .  dividends are even better .  one in four , 25 percent of americans who have dividend income have incomes below $ 50 , 000 ; 59 percent have incomes below $ 100 , 000 .  nearly 60 percent of americans who claim either capital gains or dividend income have incomes of $ 100 , 000 or less .  that is basically middle class .  another thing that the minority sometimes likes to do , i think , is tax .  they like taxes , and they want to increase taxes ; and when they can double tax , boy , that is a real joy .  that is what dividends do .  that income has already been taxed once at the corporate level .  they want to tax it again at the individual level as high a rate as possible .  so those are the things they leave out of this bill , mr. speaker ; and i hope we will reject the substitute .  mr. speaker , by direction of the committee on rules , i call up house resolution 588 and ask for its immediate consideration .  mr. speaker , for the purpose of debate only , i yield the customary 30 minutes to the gentlewoman from rochester , new york ( ms. slaughter )  , pending which i yield myself such time as i may consume .  mr. speaker , in april congress passed a responsible budget that called for spending restraint , reduction of the deficit ; and by slowing the unsustainable and automatic growth of mandatory spending programs and extending tax relief to families and small businesses , we have successfully accomplished the first two .  now , this rule will provide for consideration of our final commitment to american taxpayers , extending numerous important tax relief provisions .  in 2001 , 2003 and 2004 , congress enacted responsible tax relief to help create new jobs , grow america 's economy , and put more money in the hands of workers , families , small businesses , farms , and ranches .  following this tax relief , unemployment dropped a full percentage point to 5 percent , and we have experienced 10 uninterrupted quarters of real growth in our economy , above 3 percent , the longest stretch since the 1980s .  as was proven by the tax cuts during the kennedy and reagan administrations , federal revenues actually increase after taxes are lowered .  our expanding economy is led by consumer spending , job growth , and business investment .  this is a result of allowing workers to keep more of their hard-earned money , decreasing the tax burden on small businesses so they can expand and hire more workers , and providing incentives for families to save and invest .  unless we take action today , many of the important tax provisions that have helped our economy grow strong will expire .  without passage of this legislation , workers , families , and small businesses will have less of their paycheck to take home each week .  mr. speaker , h.r. 4297 , the tax relief extension reconciliation act , not the most eloquent of names but an important one , will continue to build on the economic progress we have already made .  a key part of the american jobs creation act of 2004 was a return to fairness for those who live , work , and raise families in states with no state income tax .  the state and local sales tax deduction is particularly important to those in my home state of florida and nine other states because it gives every taxpayer the opportunity to deduct state sales tax from his federal tax bill , something that other higher-tax states have enjoyed for some time .  this provision is set to expire in 3 weeks .  while i will continue to work to make the state and local sales tax deduction permanent , this bill extends the provision for an additional year , which is an important step forward for fairness .  the bill also extends several tax incentives to enhance the affordability of higher education , including tax-deferred education savings accounts and tax credits for post-secondary education .  it allows all taxpayers to deduct up to $ 4 , 000 of higher education expenses , which will help more students go to college .  for teachers , the tax bill extends an important above-the-line deduction to help them contain the costs of out-of-pocket classroom expenses such as books , supplies , and computer equipment .  we all know that our hardworking educators are covering for some of our neediest students , and this bill lets them keep the tax deductibility of their generosity .  in an effort to encourage savings and stable retirement security , this tax bill allows lower-income families that contribute to individual retirement accounts and pension plans to continue receiving a federal match in the form of an income tax credit for the first $ 2 , 000 of annual contributions .  this encourages families to save and plan for their own retirement .  while we were unable as a body to settle on a social security reform plan , surely we can all agree that encouraging low-income families to save for retirement and giving them the tools to do so is a sound economic policy .  our bill freezes the rate on capital gains and dividends and prevents an increase of the tax burden on 24 million families .  it is imperative that we extend this tax relief so our economy will continue on its upward track .  new data released at the start of december show that our economy continues to strengthen and grow .  the labor department reported that employers added 215 , 000 jobs in november , after adding 44 , 000 in october and 17 , 000 in september in the wake of devastating hurricanes .  the jobless rate remains unchanged at 5 percent .  the economy grew at an annual rate of 4.3 percent in the third quarter , much stronger than expected .  forecasters ' outlooks for coming months are upbeat as well .  november 's increase in payroll , the largest since july , was broad-based .  construction employment rose by 37 , 000 .  employment in professional and technical services rose by 22 , 000 .  health care employment rose by 20 , 000 jobs .  manufacturers added 11 , 000 jobs last month following an increase of 15 , 000 in october .  the most recent commerce department report shows overall consumer spending increased at a 4.2 percent annual rate , exceeding expectations .  purchases of nondurable goods surged 3.6 percent , exceeding expectations .  housing spending came in at 8.4 percent .  business investment spending rose at 8.8 percent , exceeding expectations .  obviously , the current tax policy of this congress has encouraged economic growth , and to raise taxes now would close the door of opportunity that is open for so many today .  mr. speaker , this rule provides for consideration of a substitute bill .  while we often hear democrats decry tax relief , they have decided to offer a substitute that extends many of the same tax provisions as this underlying bill does , but let us look at who they left out .  the democratic substitute does not extend an income tax credit for low-income families who contribute to individual retirement accounts , iras , and pension plans .  this hurts low-income families who are struggling to save for retirement , people who are doing the right things to prepare for their future rather than solely depending on the government to do it for them .  the democratic substitute does not extend enhanced small business depreciation expensing , so it increases taxes on small businesses , the very engines of innovation and growth and employment in this country .  the democratic substitute does not include an extension of the reduced rates on capital gains and dividends .  without this extension , 24 million families will see a tax increase , including 7 million seniors who have benefited an average of $ 1 , 200 annually from that change .  at a time when concern is growing about foreign investment in the united states , the democratic substitute throws up barriers to americans investing in america .  the democratic substitute does include a tax increase on families and small businesses to pay for the bill .  many of these individuals are small businesses who do much of the hiring and buying in this economy .  the democratic substitute bill leaves behind small businesses , omits low-income savers , and hurts families and seniors .  at a time when home heating bills are rising and local property taxes are growing , why would the democratic substitute take even more from the wallets and purses and piggy banks of the american taxpayer ?  mr. speaker , the republican tax reforms of 2001 , 2003 and 2004 have created jobs , strengthened our economy , and increased federal revenues in the process .  they quantifiably aided in shortening and curtailing the severity of the recession of 2000 and 2001 .  they buoyed the economy through major terrorist attacks , devastating natural disasters , and a global war on terrorism .  now is not the time to increase taxes on the american people .  failure to pass this bill would result in higher taxes on seniors , savers , small businesses , and farmers .  we must continue the policies that grow our economy and keep our tax bills from rising .  i urge my colleagues to support this resolution and the underlying bill , the tax relief extension reconciliation act .  mr. speaker , i reserve the balance of my time .  mr. speaker , i yield myself such time as i may consume .  i would remind the gentleman that amt relief is not in our package because it passed yesterday in the house by a vote of 414-4 .  that is why it is not in this package , because it passed yesterday .  we all talk about what we do here in washington as it relates to the economy .  the bottom line is that the economy is doing quite well because americans are out there working hard every day .  a lot of them are getting up before the sun comes up and not getting home until the sun goes down , bringing in food and fiber from our fields , manufacturing the devices that we take for granted each and every day in our manufacturing facilities , and working hard in an expanding and robust services economy , going into classrooms , going into hospitals , building houses that are part of the american dream for more and more americans .  in fact , a record number of americans now have achieved that piece of the american dream through homeownership .  so it is ordinary americans doing every day what they do best that is allowing this economy to move forward , and our role in that is to create the climate that allows them to maximize that opportunity , to put in place policies that keep inflation in check , keep interest rates low , and reduce the tax burden in their lives .  today , more corporations pay dividends than at any other time .  in fact , there has been a 69 percent increase in s & amp ; p 500 companies that pay dividends .  it is not only wealthy people that are benefiting from dividend taxes being cut and the corresponding increase in companies paying dividends .  in fact , it typically is your retirees who are owning those stocks that they have invested in their whole lives that are paying the dividends to supplement their retirement income .  prior to us changing that policy , the number of companies paying dividends over the last several years had actually gone down by 45 percent ; and since the change in the tax that lowered the dividend tax , it went up almost 70 percent .  that is a clear indication that what we did here in that small policy changed behavior in the business world to the benefit of all americans : poor americans , seniors , middle class , professionals , people who make six figures , people who make five figures .  everybody benefited from that .  in fact , disproportionately , seniors benefited from that .  everybody benefits from the fact that unemployment is now at 5 percent .  that is indisputable .  would we like to see it go lower ?  of course .  would we like to put policies in place that do that ?  of course .  does raising taxes on the american people help lower the unemployment rate ?  i do not think so .  perhaps some on the other side of the aisle would disagree .  more americans own stock today than ever before .  this is not a class-warfare argument : 91 million individuals own stock in america .  this bill puts in place a policy that encourages more americans to invest in america .  that , i believe , is sound economic policy .  mr. speaker , i reserve the balance of my time .  addressing the gentleman 's concerns , yesterday 414 members of the house voted for amt relief .  i am unclear which piece of that the gentleman is referring to that the democrats had that paid for that as it relates to that .  and the gentleman , in reference to his concern about the deficit , which is legitimate and shared by all of us about the growth of the deficit , failed to point out that the deficit has gone down over $ 100 billion in the last year .  the size of the u.s. deficit dropped and finally , to the gentleman 's point , he illustrated and spoke very clearly and directly about the democratic intentions with regard to tax policy .  they want to pick and choose the winners in american society , and we want everyone , everyone on equal footing to have the opportunity to achieve their piece of the american dream .  we do not propose to pick winners and losers in economic policy and tax policy .  we say everybody has got a shot at making the most of their opportunities in this country .  everybody has got a shot at paying less in taxes on capital gains .  everybody has got a shot at paying less in taxes on dividends that are paid by companies that support all americans .  everybody has got an opportunity to go to college through the tax incentives that are in there for higher education opportunities .  everybody has got an opportunity to achieve home ownership mr. speaker , i reserve the balance of my time .  mr. speaker , i yield myself such time as i may consume .  recognizing that volume does not always make up for sound policy , i would just pose the question as to why the democratic substitute leaves out many of the people that the gentleman purported to speak for .  the democratic substitute does not include the savers credit for low income families , those low income families who are contributing to iras and pension plans , scrimping and saving every day , every week , every month to put aside money to prepare for their own retirement , to & lt ; center & gt ; & lt ; pre & gt ; [ page : h11233 ] & lt ; /pre & gt ; & lt ; /center & gt ; why are they silent on the point of assistance for small businesses , allowing them to increase section 179 expensing so that they can get that new piece of equipment , add the new line , which means more employees , more growth , more purchasing and a better economic ripple effect in the community ?  why do you leave out small businesses along with your low income savers ?  why do you leave out the part that impacts domestic manufacturers who finance sales of large equipment to foreign customers ?  we hear an awful lot of concern about outsourcing .  here you have american-based companies doing everything they can to trade in an increasingly complex globalized economy , and you leave them out of your substitute .  why do you leave out the parts that deal with capital gains and dividends ?  why is it only about the wealthy and not about every one of those 91 million americans who own stock , who are trying to invest in america , who understand that markets offer them an opportunity to grow and create opportunities that they may not have had otherwise ?  why are all of those 91 million americans who participate in our capital market so bad ?  why are they such awful people that they ought to be singled out and excluded from the tax policy that you have created ?  why do you leave out the tax credits for cleaning up brownfield sites ?  that is something that i have always thought was the cornerstone of the democratic party , cleaning up our environment .  it is certainly something that we are proud of our record on with teddy roosevelt and our conservation effort .  we believe that you can use the tax code to encourage businesses to go into areas that formerly were environmentally damaged sites and clean them up and create jobs and opportunity in otherwise blighted areas .  this is an issue that impacts disproportionately urban areas .  why would we leave them out ?  the democratic substitute is silent on these points .  it is important that we move forward together with sound economic policies that encourage people to invest and save and be a part of this ever complicated globalized economy , not pick and choose the winners and single out individual cases of success to be punished , which is what their bill seeks to do .  mr. speaker , i reserve the balance of my time .  i have one remaining speaker as well .  mr. speaker , i yield myself the balance of my time .  mr. speaker , the debate here has been consumed by the discussion of capital gains and dividends , and that is a big part of this and that is appropriate .  but the amt relief component , which has been the source of much recent debate , we dealt with yesterday .  we dealt with it on a vote of 414-4 , overwhelming , bipartisan , on the suspension calendar , which i will remind members under the rule , requires a two-thirds vote to pass .  it is out of here .  the amt relief bill moved through here in an expeditious manner on a bipartisan basis .  what this bill does is provide continued assistance for those people who are saving to go to college .  middle- and low-income students , this is their shot at going to college .  assistance for those who are saving for retirement , seniors , low income , saving through an ira and a pension plan for retirement .  ten states that do not have a state income tax that want the same tax treatment that high-tax states have , this expires in 3 weeks unless we pass the bill .  just one of several important components in this tax relief package .  it is vitally important that we pass this and not allow taxes to go up 3 weeks from now on those 10 states , not allow teachers to lose their deductibility on classroom supplies , not allow low-income seniors and savers to be punished under the democratic plan .  mr. speaker , i urge the members to support the rule and support the underlying bill .  mr. speaker , i yield back the balance of my time , and i move the previous question on the resolution .  the previous question was ordered .  the resolution was agreed to .  a motion to reconsider was laid on the table .  mr. speaker , i thank the gentleman from michigan for yielding me this time .  mr. speaker , i rise today in strong support of h.r. 4297 , the tax relief extension reconciliation act of 2005 , and in opposition to the democrat substitute .  mr. speaker , the ways and means bill before us today addresses a number of important priorities that are broadly supported by members on both sides of the aisle .  these include tax savings for higher education expenses , small business tax relief , tax incentives for research and development by u.s. companies that create good jobs .  the bill also includes an extension of the lower rates for capital gains and dividends , an important priority for the ever-growing investor class that will keep our economy strong and our domestic job base growing .  mr. speaker , as a lead sponsor of the stealth tax relief act of 2005 , the legislation designed to prevent massive increases in the alternative minimum tax , or amt , from sneaking up on millions of unsuspecting taxpayers next year , i want to take just a moment to comment on the democrat substitute .  just 24 hours ago , the house passed my bill by an overwhelming bipartisan vote of 414-4 .  together we sent a strong , unmistakable signal to our colleagues across the capitol that extending the temporary amt relief that is scheduled to expire in just a matter of weeks is an important priority that must be addressed .  but what does today 's democratic substitute do ?  yes , it provides relief from amt .  to pay for it , the democratic substitute increases taxes on families and on small businesses that create so many jobs in our community .  mr. speaker , just yesterday all but four members of the democratic party supported amt relief in the house for our hardworking middle class without increasing taxes .  but today , just 24 hours later , our friends on the other side of the aisle are back singing a familiar tax-raising tune , one that always leaves families with less money in their wallets on april 15 , and small businesses with less money on their balance sheets .  the democratic substitute should be defeated .  mr. speaker , earlier in this debate , a colleague on the other side of the aisle claimed that the republican majority has done little to fight the amt since winning the house in 1994 .  to the contrary .  our republican majority has repeatedly provided temporary amt relief since we took control , an effort which we continued yesterday with the passage of the stealth tax relief act .  i would further remind my friends on the other side of the aisle that in 1999 the republican congress sent a bill to the president 's desk that would have repealed the amt entirely .  unfortunately , no democrats in the house supported that bill , and president clinton vetoed it .  finally , i would remind members that in 1993 , as an era of the democratic control was coming to an end , one of the last things that our friends on the other side of the aisle did was to provide a retroactive increase for the amt without indexing the exemption levels .  mr. speaker , i urge passage of our bill and defeat of the democratic substitute .  mr. speaker , i appreciate the gentleman yielding me time .  i also appreciate the fact that the gentleman from washington is willing to acknowledge christmas here on the house floor .  that is a nice step in the right direction .  mr. speaker , let us look at the facts .  to hear the other side , you would think we were taking a chain saw to the budget .  what we are proposing in the budget is that we increase entitlement spending 6.3 percent instead of 6.4 percent , saving $ 50 billion out of a $ 14 trillion budget , by rooting out waste , fraud and abuse by reforming government .  but let us talk about these tax cuts .  you would think when we cut taxes in 2003 we would have lost revenues .  right ?  that is the intuitive thing to say .  wrong .  that is not what happened .  since the enactment of the 2003 tax cuts , job losses went away .  the unemployment rate was 6.1 percent when we cut taxes .  the unemployment rate is 5 percent .  since we cut taxes , we have averaged a job creation every month of 148 , 000 jobs .  just last month alone we added 215 , 000 jobs to the economy .  what happened before we cut taxes ?  before we cut taxes , the 2 years before the tax cut , our economy grew at an average of 1.1 percent .  how fast is the economy growing since the tax cuts ?  4.1 percent .  how fast did the economy grow last quarter ?  4.3 percent .  now , mr. speaker , what has happened since we cut taxes is we have reversed the job loss , we have reversed the decline in jobs , and we have added 4.4 million jobs to the american economy since the 2003 tax cuts .  what happened to revenues ?  revenues increased .  yes , that is right .  at these lower tax rates , at these lower taxes , we increased revenues to the federal government .  last year revenues went up 14 percent .  just this year individual income tax receipts are up 14 percent .  corporate income tax receipts are up 47 percent .  what happened to the deficit , mr. speaker ?  the deficit projection in 2004 was $ 521 billion .  what is the deficit now ?  the deficit projection now is $ 319 billion .  we dropped the deficit 23 percent last year .  we dropped the deficit 25 percent last year .  the deficit is down because tax revenues are up .  do not defeat this bill and raise taxes .  let 's stop tax increases .  each of these tax cuts expire between this year and the next 2 years .  it depends on the tax cut you are talking about .  not at all .  if the gentleman will allow me to respond to his question .  why is it important that we continue the tax relief progress that would expire in 2008 on dividends and capital gains ?  because those are job creators .  mr. speaker , i thank the gentleman from michigan for yielding me this time .  i have been listening to the debate here on the floor .  i have yet to hear anybody from the other side say that the reduction in capital gains does not stimulate the economy or say that any of these items are bad for the economy .  all we have heard from the other side is class warfare , who is getting what .  well , i can tell you who is getting what , and we can go down this thing .  my folks in florida want to be able to deduct state and local sales taxes .  what is wrong with that ?  people in new york , they can deduct their income tax .  so why can floridians not deduct their sales tax and other states ?  research and experiment tax credit , who can be against that ?  it keeps us sharp and competitive in the world market .  above-the-line deduction for higher education expenses .  are we against allowing people to deduct their education expenses ?  how about an above-the-line deduction for out-of-pocket teacher classroom expenses , are you against that ?  all we are hearing about is , well , why are you doing it for capital gains and how this is going to affect the top people , the people right at the top of the income level .  i would like to point out who is going to benefit from the reduced rate on dividends .  nearly 60 percent of the americans receiving capital gains or dividend income have incomes of less than $ 100 , 000 ; and believe me , that is not millionaires , and you can even take it down to $ 50 , 000 and find one in five will benefit from the capital gains deduction because of incomes under $ 50 , 000 .  those are not millionaires , but let us get down to talk about why we are doing it now .  if we were to allow the capital gains rate to expire and jump back up and increase , what we are simply doing is pushing back the increase so they do not increase .  this is very important , and it is important for capital formation .  it is important for planning your life and future and what you are going to be able to do ; and also , i think that it is just good sense .  it is good for our economy .  our economy has grown under this structure , and let us let the economy continue to grow .  mr. speaker , i thank the gentleman for yielding me this time .  very briefly , since the tax rate on capital gains and dividends was reduced in may of 2003 , the economy has grown at an average rate of 4.1 percent ; 4.4 million new jobs have been created ; government tax receipts have increased 10 percent annually .  now we are coming to a situation in 2008 where the capital gains rate is going to go up to 20 percent ; dividends go back to ordinary income .  what effect is this going to have on the economy to all of the sudden have that increase that we are looking at ?  the question has been , and i think it has been raised , as to what is the hurry , why do it .  we want them to be able to have a tax rate that people can count on , one that people can look into the future as far as they could .  i would like to extend it even further than that , but under reconciliation we are limited to the budget window .  i think this is a good bill .  i ask all the members to reject the substitute and support the base bill .  well , i guess we are going to be telling christmas stories .  rather than fiction , i would rather deal with fact .  yesterday 414 members of the house voted to assist a group who , on average , are far richer than those who receive dividends and cap gains .  there were four no votes .  all four of them were on the democratic side of the aisle .  and i respect those people for casting what i believe was a sincere vote .  but out of the 188 democrats who voted aye , i just have to point out that my friend who just finished speaking , who is on the ways and means committee , protesting the amount in this vote , voted aye .  some of the other folks , just let me run down the list alphabetically , which tends to touch on lowey , lynch , maloney , markey , you heard him , & lt ; b & gt ; marshall , matheson , matsui , mccarthy , so as we listen to the rhetoric and the term `` millionaire '' is repeated over and over again by my friends on the other side of the aisle , it begins to be a question of whose millionaire are they talking about .  if one is a millionaire in massachusetts , it seems , we want to protect them .  if one is a millionaire in new york , we want to protect them .  at some point the rhetoric , the fiction , has to be compared to the truth .  the truth is 188 democrats , every democrat member of the ways and means committee , voted to assist people yesterday that are far richer on average than the individuals who receive dividends and cap gains .  that is not a christmas story .  that is the truth .  mr. speaker , will the gentleman yield ?  i thought the gentlewoman from new york indicated she had one final speaker , and that final speaker spoke , mr. pomeroy .  i was asking the gentlewoman from new york .  notwithstanding the equal time , mr. speaker , if the gentlewoman says it is a final speaker , we normally honor that .  mr. speaker , pursuant to house resolution 588 , i call up the bill ( h.r. 4297 ) to provide for reconciliation pursuant to section 201 ( b ) of the concurrent resolution on the budget for fiscal year 2006 , and ask for its immediate consideration .  mr. speaker , this is a bill that does not deserve the kind of rhetoric that is being delivered so far , at least that which i have heard on the rule .  this bill consists of extending current tax provisions .  it virtually breaks no new ground .  it merely retains those structures supported in committee , for example , in a bipartisan way , to allow people to continue to utilize current tax privileges .  i have a hard time when i listen to the rhetoric associated with the description of this bill when one of the provisions , for example , is the authority to issue qualified zone academy bonds for school modernization , equipment in high-poverty areas .  i can not believe my colleagues on the other side of the line are opposed to that .  above-the-line deduction for higher education expenses , in opposing this bill , i guess they are opposed to that .  continue the deduction for state and local sales taxes due to expire , i guess they are opposed to that .  i could go through and point out a number of items .  for example , the work opportunity tax credits for hiring individuals who face barriers to employment , in addition to the extension .  the age limit for eligible food stamp recipients is increased from 25 to 35 .  maybe they are opposed to that .  i guess when we go through and examine these various provisions , if those are items that are reserved for the rich , the millionaires and the privileged , i guess i just do not understand it .  but they are required to attack any bill that allows americans to hang on to their own hard-earned money .  that is just kind of fundamental , i guess .  my concern is if they are going to produce the kind of rhetoric they are producing on a piece of tax legislation which simply extends current law , what are they going to do when we have to rethink the way in which we tax people today to make sure that we do not destroy the economic engine in this country that produces the quality of life-style for each and every american ?  mr. speaker , i reserve the balance of my time .  mr. speaker , i yield myself 30 seconds .  mr. speaker , perhaps the gentleman from new york ( mr. rangel )  is not aware that the senate has included the alternative minimum tax in their reconciliation tax package .  they have already voted on it .  so there is no need to provide any assurance from the house side , because the senate has already included it .  but , again , that is reality .  the economy is not good because the president told us so .  leading economic indicators tell us so : the unemployment numbers , the productivity numbers .  the real problem with my friends on the other side of the aisle is that if reality does not coincide with their rhetoric , they choose rhetoric rather than reality .  mr. speaker , i yield myself such time as i may consume to ask a rhetorical question .  if the gentleman from massachusetts ( mr. neal )  voted yes on this alternative minimum tax bill yesterday he either was protecting the very rich in massachusetts .  no , it is a rhetorical question .  whose time is it , mr. speaker ?  either he was voting to protect the incomes of the very rich in massachusetts or he exercised a futile procedure .  there were four members of his party who voted no .  he had an opportunity , if he believed it was not real to vote no .  he voted yes .  the problem is they always want it both ways .  mr. speaker , actually , i do not need 12 minutes , i only need 10 seconds .  this bill is a -- -- no .  mr. speaker , who has the time ?  mr. speaker , it is obvious the gentleman from new york wants to make sure you do not hear this .  as i said , you do not need 12 minutes to say this : if you vote `` yes '' for the democrat substitute , you are increasing taxes over 5 years by $ 40 billion .  that is the single largest tax increase since they were in the majority in 1993 .  mr. speaker , i rise in opposition to the motion to recommit .  mr. speaker , i do not need to mention yesterday or the 414 who voted to fix this problem .  i would tell my friend from new york that you only need 60 votes outside of a reconciliation to pass this .  but i do want to mention 1985 .  the tax reform act of 1985 , under their watch , said this : `` other regular tax itemized deductions such as those for state and local taxes paid and for certain investment expenses , are not allowed for minimum tax purposes. '' i assume they did that knowingly .  they were the ones who did it .  in 1993 , they passed the largest tax increase on the american people and had a chance to adjust it again then .  i will say that we have made progress today .  this is an appropriate motion to recommit .  it does not kill the bill .  the gentleman from massachusetts said this is about upper income groups .  in fact , there was an editorial recently that said it is between the rich and the very rich .  but i do want to mark the landmark comment of the gentleman from massachusetts who said this was about middle income people .  and on page 2 of the motion to recommit , `` for purposes of this paragraph , the term `threshold amount ' means $ 100 , 000 and $ 200 , 000 in the case of a joint return. '' so $ 200 , 000 is now middle income .  i believe that is correct .  they are the ones who have always said those are the very rich .  now , the other thing you need to understand , it is this business of how many people are going to fall under the alternative minimum tax .  do you know why ?  the reason , in 1994 that there were so few people who fell under the alternative minimum tax is because the regular tax was so high .  what has happened in 2001 , 2002 , 2003 and 2004 we have driven down the rates .  and because we have lower taxes , there are more people who fall under the alternative minimum tax .  do we need to address it ?  of course .  but the vote today is far more fundamental than that .  this vote , if you vote yes , gives money to rich people to spend on consumption .  surely , you know that pure consumption does not move the economy very much .  what they want to do is deny people the opportunity to invest and to save to supply fuel to the engine of the economy so we can continue with the lowest unemployment rate and the highest productivity rate than we have seen mr. speaker , i support h.r. 4297 , the tax relief extension reconciliation act , which provides extensions for incentives for brownfields remediation , a vital tool for national economic growth and for our nation 's cities .  i want to echo the comments of my colleague , jerry weller , and applaud his efforts for supporting the remediation of brownfields .  brownfields are found in every state and in every congressional district .  estimates range from 500 , 000 to 1 million brownfields sites across the nation , covering roughly 400 , 000 acres .  private investment is essential for urban growth .  the expensing extension is a tool businesses can use to invest in urban redevelopment .  in fact , it is estimated that brownfields redevelopment could generate as much as $ 1.2 billion annually in new tax revenue for american cities .  brownfields are a major concern to america 's cities , and we must provide as many incentives as necessary to clean up these contaminated sites , bring businesses back into our cities , and continue strong economic growth .  this extension is an important first step toward redeveloping our nation 's brownfields , but much work is yet to be done .  i urge my colleagues to support this important issue and vote in favor of h.r. 4297 .  mr. speaker , i thank the gentleman for yielding me this time , and for his leadership on this issue as well as many others .  it is good to be in the house doing something that is pretty basic .  i support this legislation .  i would note that if you vote `` no , '' you are actually voting to increase taxes because this is legislation simply extending current law that expires in the coming year .  i also want to point out a provision that is very , very important in districts like mine , in areas like the chicago suburban area , because it is legislation that addresses the need to revitalize old urban areas , to recycle , and to use old abandoned industrial sites .  that is the brownfields provision .  i have worked over a number of years with chairman thomas and others , and we have worked in a bipartisan way , to find ways to encourage reinvestment in old abandoned industrial sites .  you will find , in many cases , that these old industrial sites have environmental contamination , and because of that investors would much rather go out and buy a cornfield , a greenfield site , and create an industrial park , which consumes five to six times as much land , creates urban sprawl , and also costs the taxpayers more because you have to replace the water and the sewer and the infrastructure and the roads .  well , in the coming year , the environmental cleanup provision for brownfields , that tax incentive , expires .  so we extend that .  but we also do something more , which i think is very , very important .  and , really , the recent occurrence of katrina highlights it , because we have often heard about the petroleum contamination in the new orleans area and the need for cleanup .  well , if you think of your own communities and the south suburbs of chicago and rural areas that i represent , we can always think of that gas station on a corner that has been closed for 20 years and which sat abandoned , with no one buying it .  and if you ask the local real estate people or the local economic development people why , they say , well , they had some petroleum contamination there .  if somebody buys it , they have to pick up the cost .  it does not qualify for the lust program .  so the investor who purchases that old abandoned gas station has to pick up the cost .  with this legislation , we expand the brownfields tax incentive to include petroleum .  so whether it is oil factories , gas stations , transportation hubs , or rail yards , we give that opportunity to recycle , renew , and revitalize .  if the gentleman will yield for just a moment , i appreciate the gentleman 's insight and expertise because it really crystallizes so importantly the correct way to view tax relief and deficits .  this is a chart i know the gentleman is familiar with , and it shows the current deficit that we have and it shows a decreasing deficit , in fact , a significantly decreasing deficit , with the deficit declining $ 138 billion .  that is $ 138 billion in the last 18 months , and that is at the same time that we have seen tax relief .  i wonder if the gentleman would mind commenting about that and how it is that tax relief can result in deficit reduction .  mr. speaker , i appreciate the gentlewoman 's pointing out the increase in tax revenue and the gentleman from texas pointing that out , because it is lost on some folks .  it was not lost on president kennedy , by the way , nor was it lost on president reagan , who understood clearly that if you decrease tax rates for individuals and corporations , what happens is that the economy becomes vibrant .  it becomes enthusiastic in its zeal .  and what happens is that you increase tax revenue .  this is a chart that shows the tax revenue , total tax revenue for the nation in 2003 of $ 1.78 trillion .  and , remember , that is when the tax relief , the tax cuts went into effect .  as the gentlewoman and the gentleman from texas so clearly stated , now we have tax revenue of $ 2.14 trillion in 2005 .  and that is a done deal .  that is fiscal year 2005 .  that year is over .  that year is over .  so what we see is a decrease in tax rates for individuals and corporations and an increase in tax revenue .  and as has been so clearly stated , if we allow , if congress allows the democrat tax increase that they are planning on this week , if we allow that to occur , then what we will see is a decrease in revenue and a decrease in the vibrancy of the economy .  if the gentlewoman will yield , i want to get this straight , because i think it is incredibly important for the american people to understand what is going to happen this week in the house .  as i heard the gentlewoman say , if an individual in this chamber votes `` no '' on h.r. 4297 , that means that they want to see the american people not be able to deduct sales tax , state and local sales tax ?  mr. speaker , i appreciate the gentlewoman pointing out some of the specific provisions of h.r. 4297 that we will be dealing with tomorrow .  i served in the georgia state legislature , and we worked for years to try to get tax deductibility for teachers for their out-of-pocket expenses .  i do not know a single teacher that does not spend some of their own money to kind of fill the hole , to provide some of those items in the classroom , especially in the elementary grades , that make so much more valuable the education that our children receive .  as i understand it , a no vote on h.r. 4297 means you do not want to allow for those deductions , you want to increase taxes on teachers if you vote against this bill ?  is that accurate ?  mr. speaker , there are a couple of other items that are included , and one that i want to highlight is the 2-year extension on the reduced tax rates on capital gains and dividends .  it is so incredibly important for americans to understand and appreciation that if a member of congress votes no on this provision , it means that they do not want to extend that tax rate decrease on capital gains and dividends , which is so incredibly important and vital for small businesses , as the gentleman from texas talked about so eloquently .  mr. speaker , i thank the gentlewoman from tennessee ( mrs. blackburn )  for yielding .  i want to reiterate what our colleague from georgia has said .  we are grateful to you for the leadership you have provided in these special orders in trying to get the truth out about the issues .  our colleagues on the other side of the aisle seem to think that by saying things that are not true , they can make them true .  i am glad that we have an opportunity to correct the record .  mr. speaker , this past monday , i had the great honor and privilege to host president george w. bush in north carolina 's 5th congressional district .  the president came to discuss our country 's impressive economic growth at the john deere-hitachi manufacturing plant in kernersville .  it is an honor to have many flourishing companies like deere-hitachi in the 5th district .  i am proud of this facility for being a model of how u.s. manufacturing companies can compete successfully in the global economy .  employment at deere-hitachi recently doubled in size to over 750 direct employees .  these are all good , high-skilled , well-paid jobs .  a portion of deere-hitachi 's growth has been fueled by the localization of models that were formerly produced in asia to kernersville , north carolina .  this has had a tremendously positive impact on our local economy .  thus , i am sure you can imagine how disturbed i was to hear that the political hacks over at the democratic national committee tried to twist the president 's visit to this highly successful plant into something negative .  the dnc chairman even had the audacity to ask , `` where are north carolina 's manufacturing jobs ?  `` shame on the democratic national committee for insulting north carolina 's thousands of highly skilled manufacturing workers who are driving our national economy .  the dnc 's remarks were a slap in the face to many hardworking men and women who work for successful north carolina manufacturing companies , manufacturers like dell , sara lee , american emergency vehicles , vaughn-bassett furniture , reynolds american , weyerhauser , and so many more that i can not begin to name them all .  we are making great strides and putting people to work , and all the democrats want to do is attack us .  american workers are the best in the world .  if we give our workers a level playing field and get the federal government off their back by cutting taxes and regulations , then the american worker can compete with and outperform anyone anywhere .  as you know , our country has had to endure some trying times during the past 5 years , many of which were beyond our control .  we have gone through a recession that began in the previous administration , the terrorist attacks of september 11 , 2001 , many terrible natural disasters and more .  however , we have persevered and we are prospering .  you have heard many facts already presented by my colleague from georgia , and you will hear many more , but the fact that we made it through these crises and have a booming economy is a real testament to the strength and diversity of the u.s. economy .  and it is a testament to the hard work and ingenuity of the american worker .  we all have a lot to be grateful to our president for .  under his watch , our economy is flourishing and getting stronger by the day .  in a report issued last week by the bureau of labor statistics , our economy created 215 , 000 new jobs during the month of november .  over 4.4 million jobs have been created since may 2003 , as has already been stated .  this latest jobs report is yet another indicator that our economy is thriving .  more americans are working than ever before in the nation 's history .  unemployment is down to 5 percent , which is lower than the average of the 1970s , 1980s , and 1990s .  this is due to the hard work of the american people and sound republican policies such as lower taxes , legal reform and less government influence in the lives of our nation 's entrepreneurs and small business owners .  these republican policies are working .  we are cutting taxes and letting people keep their hard-earned money , which they can invest back into our economy if they choose .  individual families know best how to spend their hard-earned money , not the federal government .  in addition to our nation 's job growth , our u.s. economy is showing other signs of expansion .  the u.s. gross domestic product growth of 4.3 percent is at its fastest pace since 2004 .  the gdp growth in the third quarter is one full point above the 3.3 percent rate .  further , our country is at the lowest rate of core inflation in more than 2 years .  the increase in the rate of inflation was lower than initial expectations with the price index of consumer spending rising 4.2 percent , compared with initial estimates of 3.7 percent .  in addition , the sales of new single family homes should be the largest 1 month gain in 12 years .  sales of new single family homes increased by 13 percent in october and pushed sales to an all-time high of 1.2 million units .  again , i am proud of president bush 's leadership and agenda for a strong economy .  my colleagues and i have a duty to keep this economic momentum going by making tax relief permanent and working against the democratic leadership 's efforts to raise taxes .  look for the democrats to continue their tired political attacks on the republicans ' effective economic policies , but do not hold your breath for them to come up with good ideas .  their only alternative is to tax , tax , and tax some more .  as we work to pass the tax relief extension reconciliation act of 2005 , i hope our democratic colleagues will join us in supporting this common-sense bill .  the future of america 's economic prosperity is at stake .  i look forward to working with president bush and the rest of my colleagues in congress to make tax relief permanent , exercise spending restraint and cut the federal deficit in half by 2009 .  again , i want to thank the gentlewoman from tennessee ( mrs. blackburn )  for her leadership in letting us present the facts to the american people , not the stories that are being told by our democratic colleagues .  mr. speaker , i want to thank mr. hastings  for helping bring this legislation to the floor , and i want to thank him for yielding the time .  i will speak now for a few minutes explaining the legislation , and i would hope , mr. speaker , that we can have a bipartisan vote to move this task force along so that the myriad of issues that cover a broad range of committee assignments , both on the house and the senate side , and a broad array of federal departments and agencies can be viewed with a single entity , this task force , between now and june to understand the comprehensive magnificent work of the people under admiral watkins that put together this commission report .  the members on the commission are people who have represented and continue to represent the oceans , aquariums around the country , the port authorities , coastal studies , offshore oil drilling , the u.s. navy , shipping and marine transportation , ocean ecology and fisheries , environmental interests and the banking industry , a broad array of individuals that were appointed by the president , the house and the senate .  the scientists that represent the ocean commission report that worked to develop the recommended policies are scientists from universities all across the country .  their expertise and diverse fields are in marine economics , coastal and estuarine issues , atmospheric issues , gulf of mexico issues and the whole array of problems with hurricanes , fishery science , coastal development , physics of ocean currents , oceanography .  the list goes on and on and on .  they presented this report to the u.s. congress in september of 2004 .  in this report , there are 31 chapters .  seven of the 31 chapters come under the jurisdiction of the fisheries and oceans subcommittee on resources .  seven of the 31 chapters come under my jurisdiction in this ocean subcommittee .  we have held hearings on our part of the ocean commission report .  but 24 chapters lie outside the jurisdiction of that fisheries subcommittee .  and it is important to get this task force so that all those other committees in this house can view this commission task force from the specific recommendations that the task force will assume from the ocean commission report .  what i would like to do is explain to my colleagues , the ocean commission task force makes recommendations in the following areas , which are outside the jurisdiction of the ocean subcommittee .  those are : the congress should establish for better leadership and coordination a national ocean council and a non-federal ocean council of advisors to view the full range of issues in the departments , the agencies and the executive branch and what goes on in the states and the tribes and the international arena regarding oceans .  they make recommendations to improve noaa , epa , the corps of engineers , the department of interior , usda and the states in their regional coordination .  right now it is severely fragmented .  they make recommendations to clarify offshore responsibilities as far as leasing oil and gas , aquaculture , bioprospecting , wind energy , fisheries , just to name a few .  they recommend structural changes in nasa , the corps of engineers , the coast guard , the u.s. navy , the national science foundation , aquaculture , health and human services , department of justice , department of state , department of labor , department of transportation and the united states agency for international development .  can all of this be done with one subcommittee or fragmented throughout the course of this congress ?  promote lifelong better financial technical institutional support for watershed management initiatives through existing federal and state laws linking coastal and offshore ecosystems .  better financial technical institutional support for all these issues .  something that is dear to our hearts right now as a result of this past hurricane season , several chapters dealing with guarding people and property against national hazards such as hurricanes and floods .  and a year ago , a year and a half ago , in the commission report they predicted , right down to the letter , what could and eventually did happen to new orleans , to coastal louisiana , to mississippi .  a vast array of information .  managing sediment flows : 30 states contribute sediment in the mississippi river that eventually goes through louisiana , mississippi and the gulf of mexico .  how do we manage those sediment flows ?  techniques for cost benefit analysis is in this report .  marine commerce and transportation across the oceans , the estuaries , and the rivers in this country .  addressing coastal and water pollution , three major laws , statutes .  the national pollutant discharge elimination system , total maximum daily load program , clean water state revolving loan fund , those are outside the jurisdiction of resources entirely .  their recommendations are for dealing with wastewater treatment plants , septic tanks , industrial facilities , agriculture , urban and suburban runoff .  addressing the atmospheric deposition problem : the single biggest issue with many estuaries including san francisco and the chesapeake bay is air deposition .  thirty percent of the problem with degrading the chesapeake bay is air deposition .  watershed monitoring : in 1974 we had 500 stations across the country that monitored the quality of water .  today there are 32 , from 500 down to 32 .  the lack of coordination between the state , the federal government , and the institutions is appalling .  limiting vessel pollution and improving vessel safety : that is the epa , the coast guard , and the international maritime association .  how to deal with invasive species with ballas water , marine organisms , major problems in the great lakes , the mississippi river , and many estuaries around the country .  connecting the oceans and human health : biomedical research , marine bacteria , contaminated seafood , harmful alga blooms , recommendations that can be gleaned from a single perspective with a single entity such as this task force and then legislative recommendations to the myriad committees that deal with these issues .  creating a national strategy for increasing scientific knowledge in ocean science , technology , and understanding the oceans ' ecosystem .  collaborating with the international community and funding recommendations for how long this is going to work .  the ocean subcommittee under the resources committee does not have the time or the resources or the people or the jurisdiction to do this .  we have dealt in that ocean subcommittee with our jurisdiction regarding the ocean commission report , which is marine debris , fisheries management , marine mammals , coral reefs , agriculture , ocean observing system , coastal habitats , and so on .  this report by admiral watkins and many scientists around this country deserve to have the united states congress , this institution , take a comprehensive view of this report , study it for several months , and then make legislative recommendations to this body .  i urge my colleagues to vote for the task force .  mr. speaker , i reserve the balance of my time .  mr. speaker , i yield myself such time as i may consume .  i would just like to respond to my colleague on the other side of the aisle .  this issue did not pop up out of thin air .  my colleagues on the other side of the aisle know full well that we have been working on this .  we have had numerous , numerous conversations since last may on this particular task force .  leon panetta , who headed the pew ocean policy commission 's report , is in favor of this task force .  admiral watkins , who worked on the oceans commission 's report , is in favor of this task force .  as a matter of fact , both of those men , leon panetta and admiral watkins , are urging my colleagues on both sides of the aisle to vote in favor of this .  now , as far as my subcommittee that mr. pallone  serves on dealing with these issues , this is a commission report that did cost a few million dollars , and it is worthy of our close scrutiny , not having staff make up a bill that we do not know the substance of that bill .  this commission report is worthy of our attention , of our observation , of our analysis , of our critical understanding of it .  my subcommittee has been dealing with the issues that have come under our jurisdiction .  we are working on the marine mammal recommendations , marine debris recommendations , coral reef recommendations , magnuson act recommendations .  we are doing that and passing that through the subcommittee .  but 24 chapters are outside those issues .  they deal with the science committee , the transportation committee , the agriculture committee , the international relations committee , the education committee , the financial services committee .  we think , instead of fragmenting this all over again because 30 and 40 years ago we went through this with the stratton report and there was not any single entity in the house of representatives that took a critical and analytical view of the stratton report , we want to do that now .  now is the time to do that .  i will tell you this , mr. farr : the aspects of oceans-21 in your bill that is subject to the jurisdiction -- -- the parts of your bill that comes under my jurisdiction -- we have held hearings on those issues .  we have .  and we have developed from your bill legislation that is moving through the subcommittee , that many of them have already passed the subcommittee and the full committee and are awaiting floor action .  mr. speaker , i yield myself such time as i may consume .  mr. speaker , i would like to read the first paragraph , because there has been a lot of mention around here about delay and the cost of the ocean commission report .  i want to read the first paragraph of the ocean commission report : america 's oceans and coasts are priceless assets , indispensable to life itself .  they also contribute significantly to our prosperity and overall quality of life .  too often , however , we take these gifts for granted , underestimating their value and ignoring our impact on them .  then our use of the oceans becomes abuse and the productive capacity of our marine resources is diminished .  in 6 months , june 30 , this bipartisan task force , made up as a reflection of the ratio of democrats and republicans in the house , which is standard practice for all committees , will issue its comprehensive report , legislative recommendations , so that each one of the fragmented committees will not have to deal with these issues that they have very little expertise with in any way .  this is a bipartisan task force that is funded with its own staff separate from any other committee or influences from any other committee to deal with the issue of oceans , which determine the climate , determine the weather , determine the air we breathe , the food source for billions of people .  this is an issue that we can get together on , have a bipartisan working relationship and put aside our partisan bickering , because the oceans are priceless .  we have some work to do , and we can accomplish that by june 30 .  mr. speaker , i reserve the balance of my time .  mr. speaker , i yield myself the balance of my time .  mr. speaker , this task force creates an opportunity to bypass , eliminate the bureaucracy and fragmentation of the myriad of jurisdictions of this body .  this task force creates a new dynamic .  it brings people in , democrats , republicans .  it brings the public into the process .  it brings scientists into the process .  it brings people who work in all the various marine industries into the process to evaluate , to analyze in a very clinical manner the ocean commission recommendations .  this is about specific recommendations coming out of a bipartisan task force with the idea that we eliminate bureaucracy ; we eliminate the committee jurisdiction problems and hand to these various committees the specific recommendations that we have evaluated over this 6-month period of time .  the subcommittee is moving legislation with the recommendations from the ocean commission report and the pew commission report on oceans .  we are dealing with what to do about sanctuaries , marine protected areas , coral reefs , marine debris , magnuson issues , ecosystem management of the fisheries .  all of these things subject to our jurisdiction and the rules of the house are being moved through that subcommittee .  i urge my colleagues to vote in favor of the task force .  mr. speaker , i move to suspend the rules and agree to the resolution ( h. res. 599 ) establishing the task force on ocean policy .  mr. speaker , i ask unanimous consent that all members may have 5 legislative days within which to revise and extend their remarks on this legislation and include extraneous material thereon .  mr. speaker , i yield myself as much time as i may consume .  mr. speaker , house resolution 599 will establish a house task force on ocean policy with the express purpose of developing recommendations and reporting to the house on the findings of the united states commission on ocean policy by june 2006 .  this bipartisan task force will have members appointed by the speaker and minority leader who will focus on the final report of the united states commission on ocean policy entitled , `` an ocean blueprint for the 21st century. '' while the task force will have no legislative jurisdiction , it will put in place a mechanism to allow the house to look broadly at the question of caring for our oceans .  the gentleman from maryland ( mr. gilchrest )  is to be commended for his untiring commitment to the preservation of our ocean resources .  we are able to bring this resolution forward today because of his good work and interest on this subject .  it is important that this resolution be considered quickly , so that members may be appointed to the task force and can begin their work and produce a report by june 2006 .  mr. speaker , i thank the gentleman for yielding me this time .  mr. speaker , i rise today in support of the resolution to create a house ocean task force .  during the more than 20 years i have been here in the congress , i have made it a priority to promote protection of our oceans and effective conservation and management of the living marine resources .  from protecting coastal wetlands to cleaning up our estuaries to promoting sustainable fisheries to preventing ocean pollution , each has been a priority .  we have accomplished a great deal .  but as highlighted in the more than 200 recommendations contained in the u.s. commission on ocean policy report released last year , much remains to be done .  and as mr. gilchrest  just pointed out , a bipartisan group to coordinate this activity is necessary , given the fragmentation that has existed in the committee system as it relates to ocean issues for more than 50 years .  as a chief sponsor in the house of the legislation to establish the u.s. commission on ocean policy , i feel it is important to follow through and ensure the recommendations are effectively implemented .  we need to build on the momentum generated last year by the release of both the u.s. and the pew ocean policy commission reports and accomplish a true sea change in the way we utilize and manage our ocean resources .  given the scope and sheer number of recommendations from both commissions , it is also clear that we need to prioritize our efforts .  the u.s. commission recommendations to congress include a range of issues that can not be addressed by any single committee .  this task force will develop a number of recommendations that will be forwarded to the relevant standing committees and work with those committees to see that the recommendations are implemented .  i feel it is time that we recognize that in order to make progress , we need a coordinated congressional focus incorporating policy justifications of each of the standing committees to draft a comprehensive national oceans policy .  this task force will enable us to do that , and i might say that the republican leadership and i hope the democrat leadership is committed to help in this effort in a very direct way .  it took more than 10 years to implement the recommendations of the stratton commission .  we can not wait 10 years .  the first u.s. commission on ocean policy was an important one , but 10 years is just too long to wait .  we need to work together to ensure implementation does not take that long this time .  we need to capitalize on the enthusiasm and momentum generated by the commission reports and their recommendations .  i urge my colleagues on both sides of the aisle to support this house ocean task force resolution so that we will better be able to deal with ocean issues .  mr. speaker , i would just like to point out to my friends on the other side of the aisle that mr. gilchrest  has spent a great deal of time in working with leadership on this issue , recognizing that there is a process problem here in that the oceans-21 bill that we all want to see passed is in the jurisdiction of quite some number of committees .  for example , the agriculture committee has jurisdiction with regard to issues involving runoff .  the armed services committee has obvious jurisdiction over issues involving the navy .  the transportation committee is where the coast guard subcommittee is housed .  the resources committee , obviously made up of interior members i might add , has great jurisdiction here , as does the financial services committee and the education committee .  what mr. gilchrest  is attempting to do here , and i support his effort very much , is to have a bipartisan commission made up that can work with leadership to work it through this morass , this maze of standing committees .  if we do not do that , the sure bet is that this bill in this term is going nowhere .  mr. speaker , i appreciate my colleague from washington for yielding me this time .  and i appreciate the concern that my colleague from massachusetts has raised .  now , if this bill was as bad as the gentleman has tried to define it , why would we bring it to the floor ?  why would any member of this house seek to bring a bill to the floor that would hurt american workers ?  madam speaker , pursuant to house resolution 602 , i call up the bill ( h.r. 2830 ) to amend the employee retirement income security act of 1974 and the internal revenue code of 1986 to reform the pension funding rules , and for other purposes , and ask for its immediate consideration .  madam speaker , i ask unanimous consent that all members may have 5 legislative days within which to revise and extend their remarks on h.r. 2830 .  madam speaker , i yield myself such time as i may consume .  madam speaker , i will put this as bluntly as i can : our nation 's pension laws are outdated and broken and placing at risk the retirement security of millions of american workers .  today , we have an opportunity to change this by voting for the most comprehensive reforms to worker pension laws in more than a generation .  the pension protection act is the outcome of one of the most thorough and remarkable legislative processes i have seen during my years in the house .  on june 4 , 2003 , the committee on education and the workforce held the first of nearly a dozen hearings on traditional pension plans , and from these hearings they have covered a broad set of issues , ranging from what is broken to who it has impacted to how we should go about fixing it .  and , today , we stand ready to debate and vote on the product of those 30 months of deliberations .  there are three key strengths of this bill , and i would like to highlight each of those for my colleagues .  it is a balanced approach , it is comprehensive in nature , and it is a benefit to american taxpayers .  first , the bill 's greatest strength is its balanced approach to the pension crisis that we face .  while some are calling for suffocating pension funding rules which would place an incredible burden on employers who voluntarily offer retirement benefits , our bill makes certain not to tighten the rules so much that employers leave the defined benefit system altogether .  while others call for relaxation of pension rules , our bill ensures that employers and unions keep their promises to workers and retirees who are counting on their pension benefits .  in short , our bill aims to shore up the traditional defined benefit pension system to which we and our parents have grown accustomed so our children and grandchildren might have a chance to be part of it as well .  the second major strength of the pension protection act is inherently comprehensive in nature .  as you can see on the chart that is next to me , the measure would ensure that pensions are fully funded to restore worker and retiree confidence ; it has enhanced disclosure requirements so that workers and retirees are no longer kept in the dark about the health of their pensions ; it would improve the financial condition of the federal agency charged with ensuring some 30 , 000 private pension plans ; it would reform outdated laws that deny workers access to professional and secure investment advice while providing even more workers with 401 ( k ) -type plans ; and it would end sweetheart deals like those we have seen at some airlines and other corporations that have terminated their plans in which executives enjoy a windfall of cash while workers and retirees are left wondering about their futures .  incidentally , these five reforms are only the tip of the iceberg .  there is much more that this bill offers to workers and retirees , far more than this chart could ever tell us .  finally , yet another strength of this measure is its benefit to american taxpayers .  each of us remembers all too well the savings & amp ; loan bailout of more than a decade ago .  by enacting the pension protection act , we can be more confident that history will not repeat itself with regard to our pension system .  as you can see on this second chart , the pension benefit guaranty corporation , which ensures nearly 30 , 000 private worker pensions , is in dire financial condition .  with some $ 450 billion in pension plan underfunding among financially weak companies looming on the horizon , the pbgc 's debt could balloon even further than its current $ 23 billion .  even though no taxpayer funds fund the pension benefit guaranty corporation , could american taxpayers be called upon to bail out the agency if its financial condition continues to deteriorate ?  i think so .  that is why the pension protection act includes responsible increases to employer-paid premiums for the first time since 1991 , along with substantial reforms to place the defined benefit system on more solid ground .  for taxpayers who may be left holding the bag otherwise , i think this is good news .  madam speaker , throughout this process i have made every effort to include my colleagues on both sides of the aisle .  and even after my democratic friends voted `` present , '' that is right , they did not vote `` no , '' they voted `` present , '' when our committee approved the bill back in june , i was hopeful that they would join us and the ever-growing coalition of labor and employer groups in support of these reforms .  however , some of my colleagues have offered nothing more than rhetoric based on quirky accounting schemes and purposely skewed modeling in an effort to characterize the pension protection act in a negative manner .  i expect these hollow and misleading arguments will continue today as they seek to detract from a debate which they have largely been absent from for the last 30 months .  it is my sincere hope , however , that many of my democrat colleagues will look beyond the rhetoric and support these long-overdue reforms .  this bill definitely deserves bipartisan support .  madam speaker , the pension protection act would not be before us if it were not for the work of my friend , the chairman of the ways and means committee , mr. thomas ; the employer-employee relations subcommittee chair and vice chair , mr. johnson  and mr. kline ; my friend from ohio , mr. tiberi , a committee colleague who worked tirelessly to garner support for the bill ; and all of the others on my committee and throughout the house who understand how imperative it is to reform our nation 's outdated pension laws for the benefit of workers , retirees , and taxpayers alike .  i thank them for their efforts to bring this bill to the floor .  madam speaker , i reserve the balance of my time .  i will be happy to do so .  mr. price of georiga .  as you and i are both aware , the airline industry continues to amass losses as the industry strives to become more dynamic , both externally and internally .  losses during the last 4 years have proven that the business model used by legacy carriers is outdated but under duress by high-fuel prices and post-9/11 repercussions .  a primary component playing into the equation of legacy carrier viability is the pension systems currently in place .  the current model of defined benefit pension plans and the rules associated with it have come under scrutiny as two legacy carriers , making up approximately 20 percent of the domestic airline market , recently terminated their employee pension plans .  there are no winners when airlines default on their pension plans .  employees now are planning for a retirement with a fraction of what they were originally promised , and further , the pension benefit guaranty corporation , the government agency and guarantor of all pension plans , is put more and more into the red , and taxpayers are exposed to greater risk .  eventually , the point will be reached when taxpayers have to bail out the pbgc if no action is taken .  with these concerns in mind , i would ask the chairman to agree to work with me and the gentleman from minnesota ( mr. kline )  to develop a process , as the senate has done , to provide airlines with the flexibility needed to fund their defined benefit pension systems over a long amortization period .  i believe it is critical that we join with the senate in this effort and through the conference process to develop final legislation that contains industry-specific reform for the airlines .  madam speaker , reclaiming my time , let me thank my colleague from georgia for his work on this issue for lo these many months .  madam speaker , reclaiming my time , as has been the case all year , the lines of communication between those of us that are interested in this , both on and off the committee , and those on the other side of the aisle as well , the lines of communication are open and will remain open .  as we move into conference , the process , i remain committed to ensuring that the concerns of all stakeholders involved are addressed in a bipartisan fashion as we complete action on comprehensive reforms in an expeditious manner .  i remain committed , as i believe both of my colleagues do , that airlines do , and that we need to find a solution that will allow airlines to maintain their plans and ensure employees of both plans are adequately funded .  madam speaker , i reserve the balance of my time .  madam speaker , reclaiming my time , i would say to my colleague that i agree with his comments regarding the importance of shutdown benefits to workers who may suddenly find that the plant for which they have worked , for 20 years in your father 's case , happens to be closed .  i think the gentleman knows that i am troubled by the fact that shutdown benefits are often paid from a company 's pension plan , despite the fact that they are not technically retirement benefits in the true sense of the word .  these benefits resemble severance-type pay benefits , and more importantly , these benefits are not funded .  but i want to make clear , for the benefit of my colleagues , that our bill does not prohibit shutdown benefits , as some have suggested .  instead , with further modifications that we have made over the last few days , it merely requires that shutdown benefits be paid from corporate assets and not pension plan assets , if the pension plan is funded at below 80 percent .  i think this is an important change , and i believe it will help restore the financial integrity of this important benefit .  my colleague from ohio correctly notes that we still have work to do on this issue of shutdown benefits , specifically as it relates to the steel industry , and as such , i pledge to him and other members who may have an interest in this as well that on this issue we will continue to work on this matter throughout this legislative process .  mr. speaker , i reserve the balance of my time .  i assume so .  mr. speaker , i yield myself the balance of my time .  as i listen to my colleagues on the other side of the aisle , i have to tell you that i am confused .  some of them say the rules that we are proposing here are too tough and are going to drive employers out of the pension business , while we have some of my colleagues on the other side of the aisle saying the rules are not tight enough and we are going to create more deficits at the pension benefit guaranty corporation .  ladies and gentlemen , i think the bill is just right .  yes , these are better rules that will require companies to better fund their plans .  they certainly are better than current law .  but i do not believe they go to the point of driving companies out of the defined benefit system .  my good friend from california believes we are going to drive up the deficit .  now , if the rules were not strong enough , i would not have had virtually every employer in america who has a defined benefit plan beating on my office door complaining about the rules we were proposing .  i would not have had every labor organization talking to me about how do we get this right .  the fact is , if you look at the chart that we have here , plans must meet a 100 percent funding target .  that is not the law today .  if they are in the 80-90 percent range , it is good enough .  but then as soon as the market turns down or the industry has a bump in the road , it is not long before they are under 60 and in deep trouble .  so requiring plans to be 100 percent funded , i think , is a very good idea .  having an interest rate that is commensurate with their liabilities is something that we have not done ever .  we have had one interest rate used to calculate the plan 's liabilities .  under this modified yield curve proposal , they will have three different interest rates to use based on the longevity of their workforce , 0-5 years , 5-20 , and those employees who will retire after 20 years .  it will give us a more accurate reflection of the true cost of those plans .  third , it requires funding shortfalls to be erased over 7 years .  we want to give companies time to go from the current rules to these more responsible rules ; and if we do not have a sufficient transition time , what is going to happen is that we are going to create real havoc in the marketplace .  fourth , it restricts unlimited use of credit balances .  we all know that the current rules about credit balances are , frankly , some of the most irresponsible public policy that i have seen .  beginning to restrict the use of those credit balances will , in fact , strengthen these plans .  fifth , it curves benefit increases for underfunded plans .  we all know there are plans that were underfunded , severely underfunded , and yet increasing benefits at the same time .  that is not fair to workers who are being given promises that someone has no intention of keeping .  last , it shores up the finances of the pension benefit guaranty corporation .  all of these will bring more funding to company pension plans , it will bring more funding to the pension benefit guaranty corporation , and put our pension system for american workers on a stronger foundation .  why else do i think we are just right ?  i have a long list of business organizations that are supporting this bill and a long list of labor organizations that are supporting this bill .  it is a balanced bill .  i urge my colleagues to support it .  let me thank my colleague and my friend and classmate , mr. camp , for yielding me time , and thank all of my colleagues for what i think has been a very healthy debate today about how we strengthen america 's pension system .  we have heard members argue that the bill that we are bringing before us is too difficult , that we will force companies out of pension plans and leave their employees hanging ; while others have argued that the rules are not tough enough , and we are keeping the door open to irresponsible practices .  i truly do believe that we have a bill that is balanced , that will not push employers who have these plans out of the system and will protect american workers who have been promised these benefits .  if we do not act , we know exactly what is going to happen : millions and millions more americans are going to lose an opportunity for a defined benefit pension plan , and millions of americans who already have one are going to be at risk that they will not have their plan .  so congress must act .  not only did we deal with single-employer pension plans , but we have not talked much about multiple-employer pension plans that you find traditionally in the trucking industry , the food industry and others .  and while they have not been talked about much today in this debate and the administration did not propose changes , there are serious changes to the multi-employer pension system in this plan that will help strengthen that system .  those plans , by and large , are healthier than single-employer plans , and we have labor and management on both sides in the multi-employer sector come together to put rules in place so that their plans can never get into a very weakly funded position .  i am glad they are in the bill .  lastly , let me point out that there are large numbers of groups supporting this bill .  every major labor organization , with the exception of several , is supporting this bill .  many in the management sector in every large business organization is supporting this bill .  why would all of the labor organizations and the business organizations all be on board in support of this bill ?  because they think it is balanced .  they think it is the right thing to do , and they know that congress needs to act .  is everything perfect in the bill ?  no .  as the gentleman pointed out , we have got airline relief that we will probably be talking about again soon .  our commitment is to deal with this in conference .  my colleague from ohio talked about the need to go further on cash balance language .  i certainly agree with her .  there are 7 million americans who have cash balance plans or other types of hybrid plans .  we need to provide legal certainty for those who have converted to a cash balance plan so that we do not put in jeopardy the 7 million americans counting on benefits from those plans .  we have a good bill .  i would urge my colleagues to support it .  mr. speaker , i rise in opposition to the motion to recommit .  mr. speaker , the debate today on the floor is about the massive underfunding in worker pensions and the need to change the status quo .  unfortunately , what we have just been presented is what would actually make pensions less secure by preserving the status quo and putting at risk millions of american pensions .  let me make five points .  first , the motion to recommit preserves the status quo by requiring employers and union leaders to fund their plans at 90 percent or in some cases only 80 percent , instead of the 100 percent funding requirements that we have in the underlying bill .  it just does not pass the straight-face test .  second , they are preserving the status quo by continuing to allow employers to take up to 30 years to erase any funding shortfall in their plan .  pension experts agree that this increases the risk of plan termination , threatening the benefits of workers and retirees .  third , they are preserving the status quo on unrestricted use of credit balances which mask the massive pension plan underfunding we see today .  we know that the credit balance rules that are in place today are irresponsible public policy .  they must be changed if we are going to strengthen the pension system .  and to allow those rules to stay in place , again , does not pass the straight-face test .  fourth , they propose preserving the status quo by failing to incorporate the full package of multi-employer reforms that were agreed to by a broad coalition of organized labor and employer groups .  last , they preserve the status quo by promoting uncertainty among employers if these pension benefits and workers who are relying on them maintain the current interest rate package for 2 years and then go back to the 30-year rate thereafter .  the modified yield curve in the underlying bill presents a more accurate picture of the liabilities that these plans have and should , in fact , stay in the bill .  mr. speaker , i believe that the underlying bill is far more balanced .  it really does strengthen american pensions , and i would urge my colleagues to reject this .  mr. speaker , i demand a recorded vote .  mr. speaker , i rise today in strong support of h.r. 2830 , the pension protection act of 2005 .  i applaud the chairman of the ways and means committee , the distinguished bill thomas , as well as the chairman of the education and workforce committee , john boehner , for their hard work and leadership on this issue .  protecting the pensions of millions of americans is a top priority for this 109th congress and h.r. 2830 is strong legislation designed to that end .  i rise today to also thank chairman thomas for his inclusion in the pension protection act of legislation i introduced related to the waiver of a 10 percent federal tax penalty for public safety employees -- our nation 's firefighters , police officers and emergency medical personnel .  people who put their lives on the iine for us everyday deserve our full support and they are receiving that support here today thanks to chairman thomas .  many public safety personnel begin their careers at a young age .  they will vest in their regular pension plans and , even if they participate in one of the new deferred plans and remain on the job longer , will be eligible for retirement before they reach age 55 .  for example , in houston the average firefighter begins his career at age 23 .  after 20 years of service , now age 43 , the average firefighter is fully vested in the regular pension fund and can retire and begin receiving benefits immediately .  today , the firefighter can participate in the deferred plan for up to an additional 10 years .  if the firefighter participates for the full 10 years and then elects to retire , he or she will be age 53 and , in general , will not be able to take distributions prior to the age of 59 1/2 without triggering the 10-percent penalty .  for distributions to public safety employees that are subject to the 10-percent penalty , section 905 of h.r. 2830 would waive the penalty .  this provision has received considerable attention and support during this and previous congresses .  the effort began in 2002 , when my texas colleague , congressman gene green , introduced h.r. 4796 .  later that year , senator jim inhofe introduced companion language , s. 3072 .  mr. speaker , in closing , i want to applaud my house colleagues and , particular , ways and means chairman thomas , to whom i would like to express the deep gratitude of our nation 's firefighters , police and emergency medical service employees for including section 905 in the house bill and moving the issue forward .  i strongly urge my colleagues to support passage of h.r. 2830 , the pension protection act .  mr. speaker , i yield myself such time as i may consume .  mr. speaker , h.r. 2830 , the pension protection act of 2005 strengthens retirement security for millions of americans .  current pension funding laws and structures are outdated and threaten the financial stability of the pension system .  in fact , the pension benefit guaranty corporation , pbgc , the government insurer of pension plans , estimates that single employer plans are underfunded by up to $ 450 billion .  furthermore , an increasing number of companies are using the bankruptcy system to dump massively underfunded pension plans on the pbgc .  since traditional pensions are a critical component of retirement security , it is essential to form law that modernizes and strengthens funding rules .  h.r. 2830 ensures that companies fulfill their pension promises to working people .  it requires employers to fully fund their pension plans and rectify funding shortfalls more quickly .  it also ensures that employees receive up-to-date and accurate information about their pensions and prevents companies from making future promises when they can not even meet current obligations .  the bill strikes the right balance in ensuring the plans will begin to be more appropriately funded while not being so strict that the companies providing pension plans are in danger of having to terminate them .  to that end , h.r. 2830 provides transition relief to employers , giving them time and flexibility to get their pension funding in order .  in addition , the ways and means committee incorporated into this package a number of tax incentives to increase retirement savings for americans .  included in h.r. 2830 are provisions to make permanent the savers ' credit and the increased contribution limits for iras and other 401 ( k ) plans .  the bill also increases savings opportunities for our men and women in combat and provides increased pension flexibility for public safety officers , including firefighters , policemen and emergency medical service employees .  furthermore , this bill provides tax benefits to make health care and long-term care more affordable .  h.r. 2830 makes permanent bipartisan pension improvements established in 2001 .  while pension reform is a difficult area to make adjustments , given the unique needs of each employer , this legislation is a fair and balanced package that will provide economic security for millions of americans .  it has broad support for both the employer and labor communities .  i urge my colleagues to support this bill .  mr. speaker , i reserve the balance of my time .  mr. speaker , i yield myself 30 seconds just to say that we had several hearings on this pension bill in the ways and mean committee , including the select revenue subcommittee which i chair .  let me just say that the pbgc 's analysis shows that funding contributions to this end up being lower only in the short term ; but , actually , starting in 2010 , contributions to pension plans will increase .  and that is because the funding reforms in the bill are phased in over 5 years .  mr. speaker , i yield myself such time as i may consume .  mr. speaker , reclaiming my time , i would just say to the gentleman , as chairman of the select revenue measures subcommittee of ways and means , i look forward to working with him on this and other issues as this legislation moves through the process and to conference .  mr. speaker , i yield myself 2 minutes .  mr. speaker , pension reform is more than just an accounting issue ; it is about protecting the trust between employers and their employees .  it is critical for congress to address this issue and step in and fix rules that no longer work .  many businesses are complying with pension laws .  however , the current system is too weak , and many companies have plans that are underfunded .  it is time for congress to step in and reform single-employer pension plans , multi-employer plans , improve disclosure and enhance retirement savings .  the bill before us achieves these goals .  the pension bill requires companies to accurately measure how much to contribute to their plans and how much they owe .  this bill also protects shutdown benefits .  those are benefits that are paid to workers who are being laid off because of a plant closing .  these benefits are critical to help older workers affected by corporate downsizing .  it is imperative that well-funded plans be able to continue to provide their workers with shutdown double benefits , and i am glad this pension protection act preserves this important pension security tool .  the strength of multi-employer pension plans is critical to the retirement security of many americans .  approximately 1 , 600 multi-employer plans cover about 9.8 working people in the united states .  multi-employer plans , like single-employer plans , can not simply be turned over to the pbgc .  therefore , it is even more important to those involved that these plans are properly funded .  this bill strengthens the solvency of multi-employer defined pension benefit plans by providing trustees with the tools to fix the plan 's financial situation .  the bill requires trustees to adopt rehabilitation plans for critically funded pensions and protects employers from defaulting on their promises .  one important provision of this bill , and perhaps one of the least mentioned , is regarding disclosure requirements .  the bill would give retirees and employees better information on the financial condition of their plan .  now workers will be sent information from their plan 's sponsor and the plan 's ratio of assets to liabilities , the plan 's funding and asset allocation policies and other critical information .  while protecting pensions is a focus of this legislation , the bill does much more than that .  it includes new opportunities for people to prepare for their retirement and bolster their savings .  the bill provides individuals with new insurance products that help americans better afford long-term health care costs .  i applaud the work of chairman thomas and chairman boehner and urge support of this bill .  mr. speaker , i thank the distinguished chairman for yielding .  i oppose the motion to recommit .  this motion to recommit leaves current pension funding rules in place which ends up weakening the funding rules in the underlying bill .  this means that businesses would not be fulfilling their promises to working people .  the motion to recommit also has a $ 53 billion surtax contained in it on small business .  that surtax is bad for workers , bad for small business , bad for america .  so i would urge a `` no '' vote on the motion to recommit , a `` yes '' vote on the underlying bill , which would ensure that pension plans would be appropriately funded , but not so strict as to cause employers to terminate their pension plans .  i urge a `` yes '' vote on the underlying bill .  mr. speaker , i thank the gentleman for yielding me this time .  i would like to offer my support also for the comprehensive pension reform legislation that we are now considering .  i would also like to congratulate and thank chairman boehner and chairman thomas for their hard work in getting us to a point where we can make meaningful and necessary reforms to our pension system .  it has become very clear to us that the laws governing pension plans are antiquated .  this is evident from recent high-profile bankruptcies , pension plan terminations and the pension benefit guaranty corporation 's , pbgc , latest report of a $ 22.8 billion long-term deficit .  it would be criminal if congress were to ignore these instances and not do something to protect the interests of workers , retirees and taxpayers alike .  as we have all heard here this afternoon , h.r. 2830 will strengthen pension plan funding rules , provide workers with meaningful disclosure about the health of their pension plans and protect taxpayers from a possible multi-billion dollar bailout of the pbgc .  i would like to highlight a couple of provisions within the bill that i believe are also vital to the health of the system .  first , many workers and retirees in recent years mistakenly believed that their pension plans were well funded only to receive a shock when the plan was terminated .  without basic information , workers and retirees are left without the most basic tool they need to hold their employers accountable : complete and accurate information about the true funded status of their pension plans .  the pension protection act ensures workers and retirees are given timely , accurate and straightforward information about the health of their plans and thus their own financial future .  it is my belief that requiring transparency is one of the most important things that congress can do for employees .  second , when pension plans are underfunded and worker retirement security is in jeopardy , excessive executive compensation packages can add insult to injury by heaping lavish benefits on executives while workers and retirees wonder if they will have any retirement benefit at all .  the pension protection act restricts the funding of such executive compensation arrangements if an employer has a severely underfunded plan .  moreover , it requires plans that become subject to these limitations to notify affected workers and retirees .  again , i thank the chairmen for their leadership , and i urge my colleagues to support the pension protection act .  mr. speaker , it is because of today 's outdated pension rules , workers , retirees and taxpayers all stand to lose unless we act now to reform our pension system .  under current law , employers have been allowed to underestimate their future pension liabilities and to make promises they simply can not keep .  the recent example of united airlines underscores the need for reform .  united pilots plan was severely underfunded , yet the company was not required to make cash contributions to that plan in 8 years prior to its termination .  the legislation before us today strikes a careful balance between preserving the defined benefit pension system for workers and ensuring that employers properly fund their plans .  this bill provides workers with meaningful disclosure about the status of their pensions , and it protects taxpayers from a possible multibillion dollar bail-out of the pbgc , which insures the pensions of some 44 million workers .  but h.r. 2830 contains other important provisions aimed at improving the economic security of retired americans .  for example , it provides retired firefighters and police officers , who often retire early without medicare coverage , with a tax break on pension withdrawals to pay for health insurance premiums .  this provision enjoys strong bipartisan support and offers a small measure to protect against exorbitant health care costs that follow a career spent responding to emergencies .  all together , mr. speaker , this bill represents a balanced approach to protecting the interest of workers , retirees and taxpayers , and i urge my colleagues to support its passage .  mr. speaker , i particularly want to commend the chairs of the ways and means and education and the workforce committees for putting together a bill which could finally fix the antiquated laws that govern pension plans and protect , at the same time , the interests of workers , retirees , and taxpayers .  what comprehensive pension reform must do and what this bill does for the first time in a generation is to significantly shore up pension funds through tough funding rules , but without pushing employers into termination , bankruptcy , and a multibillion dollar taxpayer bail-out of the pbgc .  but this bill goes beyond reforming pension laws .  it also embraces new tax policies to encourage savings for retirement .  first , the bill provides for automatic enrollment into 401 ( k ) plans .  while defined contribution plans such as 401 ( k ) s have seen increases in participation since their inception , our national savings rate now is well below 1 percent .  a study by the vanguard group projected that enacting the automatic enrollment provisions in this bill would boost participation to create 5.5 million new participants in 401 ( k ) plans .  the bill also provides for split tax refunds , where taxpayers may direct all or part of their tax refund to be deposited into an ira .  recently , we became aware of a pilot project that gave a sampling of tax filers the opportunity to split their refunds between a savings account and a refund check .  participants deposited $ 583 , on average , 47 percent , of their refunds into savings accounts .  most significantly , 75 percent of these individuals had no prior savings .  these results speak for themselves .  as cochairman of the savings and ownership caucus , i believe that reaching out and empowering working families is essential to increasing the country 's savings rate and ultimately to improve on our trade balance , strengthening our economy and providing a growth path for the american future .  i urge a `` yes '' vote on this pro-worker , pro-retiree , pro-savings legislation .  mr. speaker , i thank the subcommittee chairman , mr. camp , and my colleagues for working so hard on this bill , along with our chairman and chairman of the education and the workforce committee .  without their urging , this bill would not be on the floor today , and this bill is so extremely important , especially to constituents in my district .  over the last year , i have met with employees , union members , covered by both multi-employer and single-employer plans , also with the employers to discuss their concerns regarding pensions .  pension protection continues to be their top issue .  many of my constituents have faced challenges to their pensions with companies like u.s. airways filing for bankruptcy or others turning their plans over to the pension benefit guaranty corporation .  this bill would establish sensible funding rules , requiring employers to fund 100 percent of their pension liabilities .  in this bill , fair consideration is given to those plans which need to catch up , but funding shortfalls must be made up within 7 years .  also , employers are urged to increase their pension contributions during profitable years , which they can not currently do freely under the present rules .  in addition , the bill encourages greater transparency so that employees know the status and financial health of their own company 's pension plan .  ultimately , this is their own retirement financing .  they have a right to know .  these requirements will create more stability and certainty in these pension plans .  this bill also prohibits employers from funding golden parachute executive compensation plans if the pension plans of the rank and file are underfunded .  u.s. airways executives walked away with $ 35 million in executive compensation after running the company nearly into the ground and dragging concessions out of their employees , including reductions in pension benefits for pilots and leaving other employees in the dark about the funding of their pension plans .  this is unfair to the hardworking employees of these companies , and this bill would prevent such a travesty in the future .  finally , this bill encourages additional retirement savings by extending and improving incentives to save .  the bill makes permanent provisions passed in 2001 to increase annual contributions to iras and qualified pension plans and `` catch-up '' contributions for individuals over 50 .  i hope my colleagues will support this legislation because it finally gives employees what they need : stability in their retirement .  mr. speaker , by direction of the committee on rules , i call up house resolution 602 and ask for its immediate consideration .  madam speaker , for the purpose of debate only , i yield the customary 30 minutes to the gentleman from massachusetts ( mr. mcgovern )  , pending which i yield myself such time as i may consume .  mr. speaker , i yield myself such time as i may consume .  mr. speaker , this debate has been on the rule to deal with a very important bill that has been talked about on both sides that needs to be addressed .  i would just simply point out that there will be a motion to recommit , which has always been part of what the republican majority has suggested on every major piece of legislation since we have been in control .  mr. speaker , i yield back the balance of my time , and i move the previous question on the resolution .  the previous question was ordered .  madam speaker , i have the honor of chairing a subcommittee that has jurisdiction over pension law and being an original sponsor of the pension protection act .  as a member of both the committee on education and the workforce and the ways and means committee , we have been working for the last 2 years to get a pension bill to the house floor , and i am proud to rise in strong support of the bill .  the pension protection act is good and it is tough .  our bill makes companies put their money behind their promises and keep employees well informed on the health of their pension plans .  while this bill is tough , it does not go overboard with more red tape that has almost killed traditional pension plans .  even with all the red tape that currently binds up these pension plans , there still are some loopholes in current law that have allowed companies to run away from their responsibilities and dump pension promises onto the pension benefit guaranty corporation .  the pbgc says it is $ 23 billion in the hole , and they say that , with expected terminations , they are close to $ 28 billion .  our bill will tighten up pension laws so that companies making promises to employees for their retirement security actually put the money behind their promises .  it is a shame our pension laws have allowed those most directly affected , workers and retirees , to be left unaware that there may be little money behind the promises of a secure retirement .  united airlines ' pilots ' pension plan was only 30 percent funded when it was dumped on the government .  those pilots and their families did not know how bad the situation was , and they are the ones that are now trying to figure out how to live on one-third of what they had planned to receive .  our bill requires a company to tell their employees if the pension plan is less than 80 percent funded .  employees will now push their bosses to put money into the plans to match the promises being made .  this is a really important reform and should not be minimized .  also , not to be underestimated is a provision that will allow for a phased retirement of older workers .  the provision would allow people to continue working , but also collect their employer-based pension after the age of 62 .  current rules prohibit working for the same employer while also collecting a pension today .  this prohibition simply forces many people to change jobs or work for a competitor or stop working altogether .  my constituents have been really happy to hear about this additional way to step lightly into retirement .  the bill also helps to modernize the pension law on cash balance pension plans .  this type of pension plan represents the best chance we have at maintaining defined benefit plans in the future .  cash balance plans are a better fit than traditional plans with today 's mobile workforce where employees generally do not stay with one employer for their entire career .  the bill clarifies that in the future these plans are not age discriminatory .  we need to provide this certainty .  in fact , we should go further in providing certainty for plans regardless of when they were created , but because of litigation we can not .  we need to get this bill through the house and on to conference with the senate and quickly enacted early next year .  the number of traditional pension plans has been declining rapidly .  the companies dropping these plans are in two groups .  the first group is those that do not put their money behind their pension promises and turn their liabilities over to the government .  we have seen that in the steel and airline industries .  the second group is companies that are just sick of the red tape and uncertainty of our laws so they decide to stop offering plans altogether , like verizon announced last week .  in the many hearings on pension issues we have heard over and over again that companies need predictability and stability in their plans .  we need to get this bill enacted so that companies put their money behind their promises so they can plan with certainty in the long term .  support this bill .  mr. speaker , i believe that section 122 of this bill is an important public policy statement that says corporate executives who are not properly funding the pension plans of their employees should not be feathering their own nests with overly generous retirement packages .  currently , the bill penalizes employers who fund executive compensation if the sponsor 's employee defined plans are less than 60 percent funded .  my concern is that by setting this threshold too low , we are not discouraging them enough from being irresponsible with the retirement security of their employees while they take care of their own retirement packages .  i ask the chairman to work with me in conference to increase the threshold to at least 80 percent so that we encourage executives to take their pension funding obligations more seriously , not leave their defined benefit plan beneficiaries and , indeed , the pbgc and taxpayers on the hook .  mr. speaker , i thank the gentleman for his response .  madam speaker , i thank the chairman for yielding .  i would like to echo my colleague from georgia 's comments on this important subject .  i , too , come from a district full of hardworking airline employees that have genuine concerns about the future of their pension plan .  throughout this process , i have worked to ensure that we address this issue in a way that does two critical things : one , make sure airlines can continue to afford participation in their defined benefits system ; two , support the policy priorities of our committee , the education and the workforce committee , in our efforts to protect employees by making sure the promises they have been made are backed with well-funded pension plans .  madam speaker , i commend the chairman for all his work on this bill and ask for his continued good efforts on behalf of the airline industry as we go forward .  madam speaker , i rise in strong support of h.r. 2830 , and i thank chairmen boehner and thomas and johnson for their great work in getting us to this point .  this bill represents a responsible approach that will protect the retirement benefits of millions of american workers and help ensure that their pension benefits will be there when they retire .  in recent years , our important retirement security system has come under strain from the increased aging of the workforce and from dishonest employers who made promises they could not keep .  many workers and retirees have been misled into believing that they will have a secure retirement only to see their pension plan terminated due to plan underfunding .  this bill includes reforms to ensure employers more accurately measure and fund their short-term and long-term pension promises .  it includes tough new funding requirements to ensure plans are adequately and consistently funded , and it provides meaningful disclosure provisions about the financial status of pension benefits .  in addition , this bill is important to protect taxpayers from a multibillion dollar bail-out of the pension benefit guaranty corporation .  when the pbgc can not pay benefit for plans where they have assumed planned liabilities , taxpayers are on the hook for the difference .  in fact , in november the pension benefit guaranty corporation reported a long-term liability deficit of $ 22.8 billion .  that is billion with a b. the pension protection act will reasonably increase employer-paid premiums to help shore up the pbgc and protect taxpayers from this potentially large liability .  this bill contains commonsense reforms that will help protect the pensions of millions of americans ; and this bill is supported by a broad array of unions , employers , and other organizations .  passage of the pension protection act is important to the retirement security of millions of americans , and it is important to help protect taxpayers from an expensive bail-out .  i strongly urge my colleagues to support this bill .  mr. speaker , when this issue first came to the floor , i was very concerned , certainly , about how it dealt with some of our manufacturing companies and our workers as well .  so many people in my district have worked a lifetime to secure a good pension to help them in their retirement years .  they perform jobs that are difficult on them , both physically and mentally ; and they have earned their pension .  in michigan we have so many workers in the airline industry , because , of course , detroit is the hub for northwest airlines .  but we obviously also have a huge number of auto workers because of the big three and the numerous suppliers to the auto industry that reside there .  northwest airlines supports this legislation , as does continental airlines , american airlines , delta airlines .  so you might think , well , it must be bad for the airline workers then , right ?  but the bill is actually supported by the airline pilots association and the association of flight attendants .  so both management and labor do support this bill .  this bill is also supported by general motors and even the delphi corporation .  so you might think it might be bad for auto workers , right ?  well , it is actually also supported by the united auto workers union .  in fact , it is also supported by the affiliated unions of the building and construction trades department of the afl-cio , the bricklayers and allied craft workers , the transport workers union , the united brotherhood of carpenters and joiners , and the united food and commercial workers union .  it is also supported by the u.s. chamber of commerce and the business roundtable .  any bill that acquires the support of business and labor must be doing something right in today 's economy and this climate .  i think we have crafted an excellent piece of legislation .  it does what needs to be done : it protects workers pensions .  let us pass this legislation .  let us get it into conference with the senate , and let us get on with the job of ensuring that workers are secure in the knowledge that the pension that they have worked so hard to get will be there when they retire .  mr. speaker , i rise in strong support of the pension protection act ( h.r. 2830 ) , legislation that responds to the many challenges currently facing the financial health of the defined benefit pension system .  the defined benefit system provides millions of american retirees and current workers with retirement benefits earned over the course of a lifetime .  yet the rules governing the structure of the defined benefit system are geared towards a 20th century workforce that no longer exists .  the pension protection act will bring these outdated rules into the 21st century and respond to the rapidly evolving american workforce that is more fluid , technologically advanced and diverse than ever before .  h.r. 2830 accomplishes this goal by implementing four commonsense reforms that hold employers to a higher standard and will ensure the fiscal future of the defined benefit system : ( 1 ) the legislation will ensure employers properly and adequately fund employees ' defined benefit pension plans ; ( 2 ) provide meaningful new disclosure to workers about the status of their pension plan ; ( 3 ) secure the financial future of the pension benefit guarantee corporation ( pbgc ) and prevent a possible multi-billion dollar taxpayer-funded bailout ; ( 4 ) encourage greater employee savings for retirement goals by reforming outdated defined contribution plan rules .  the legislation also prohibits executive compensation arrangements when a rank and file employee pension plan is severely under-funded .  this important provision will prevent corporate chieftains from escaping via the golden parachute when an employer carries a qualified pension plan that is 60 percent under-funded or more .  after all , the average working man in rural georgia deserves nothing less than a corporate executive in new york .  and while h.r. 2830 includes important reforms to ensure employers more accurately fund their pension obligations , it also holds union leaders to a higher standard as well .  over the years , union leaders have exerted tremendous pressure on employers in every commercial sector by negotiating benefit increases to defined benefit plans that are already under-funded .  while many employers have not held up their end of the bargain by responsibly funding plan benefits , union leaders are equally responsible for misleading their workers and pushing for unrealistic benefit increases knowing full well an employer 's plan is already under-funded .  this is no less outrageous , and h.r. 2830 takes important steps to prevent union leaders and employers from negotiating unrealistic benefit increases that will only hasten plan failure and an eventual taxpayer bailout .  in addition , the compromise measure includes a series of requirements to address `` critical multiemployer plans '' funded between 65 percent and 70 percent .  these plans face significant and immediate funding problems .  h.r. 2830 not only strengthens the funding requirements for critical plans , it also requires trustees to develop a rehabilitation proposal to show a 20 percent improvement over 15 years .  mr. speaker , the number of employer sponsored defined benefit plans are declining by the day , down from an all-time high of 170 , 000 in 1985 to 30 , 000 today .  this is unacceptable .  congress should not sit idly by while the defined benefit system continues to die on the vine , and for that reason i urge all of my colleagues to avert the pending retirement security crisis by passing the pension protection act today .  mr. speaker , i strongly support this important legislation to address pending funding issues for america 's workers , and i applaud the work of chairman thomas and chairman boehner on this bill .  as my friend from north dakota , on the other side of the aisle , just pointed out , relief for the pension plans of america 's struggling airlines is not in the current house bill .  certainly important to my district , but i have been assured , mr. speaker , that as this bill moves to conference with the senate version , the special challenges facing airlines will be addressed .  it is important to the people of my district .  northwest airlines is the largest employer in the third congressional district of minnesota , and thousands of northwest employees are counting on congress to rescue their pension plan .  no one wants to see another pension plan fail and be turned over to the pension benefit guarantee corporation .  northwest airlines is struggling to emerge from bankruptcy and is trying to do the right thing for its employees by maintaining its pension plan .  so as this bill moves through the process , i agree , we must provide relief to this fragile industry .  but we must pass this bill today to get it to conference so we can take care of the airlines .  we must act today by passing this bill so employees can get the benefits they were promised and so the pbgc and taxpayers will not be on the hook .  so let & lt ; center & gt ; & lt ; pre & gt ; [ page : h11763 ] & lt ; /pre & gt ; & lt ; /center & gt ; madam speaker , i appreciate the chairman rising to engage me in a colloquy .  i would like to thank both you and chairman thomas for your work on this bill .  as you remember , back during the committee , i spoke about shutdown benefits and appreciate the work that you and chairman thomas have done in the last couple of days to deal with stakeholders in that industry .  however , the language contained in the bill does not quite go far enough , i believe , in helping everybody in every industry .  mr. chairman , as i have told you before , my father worked in the manufacturing business as an employee for over 20 years .  he was a member of the steel workers , and one day when i was in high school , he came home and was out of a job , which is traumatic enough , but he was also out of a pension .  today , employers and employer groups can work together to provide shutdown benefits to employees and to families , and my hope is that your commitment still stands , as it has , that we will work , particularly with the steel industry as we have done with the auto industry , to make sure that shutdown benefits remain a vital option for employers .  madam speaker , i rise in support of this rule and the underlying bill .  i believe this piece of legislation is one of the most important pieces of legislation that we will take up in the 109th congress , and i do not believe it is getting an adequate level of public attention considering the enormity of the significance .  in my 11 years in the house of representatives , i have seen more and more the movement of our economy into a global economy where our u.s. corporations are increasingly finding themselves having to compete no longer with other domestic corporations , but foreign companies that operate under very , very different rules in their domestic country of origin , and particularly as it relates to pension plans .  what i am getting at , madam speaker , is that we desperately need to modernize our pension laws and probably most importantly , more than anything else , we have seen tragically , in recent years , many workers come to their retirement years to find that their pension plans are insolvent , that the company that had guaranteed them a retirement is bankrupt , and increasingly that these pension plans are underfunded .  now is this a perfect bill ?  no .  there is no bill that comes through a legislative process as complex as this involving two committees that anybody can label as perfect .  but this is moving us in the right direction .  we are going to go to conference with the senate and what is going to emerge is going to be a good bill .  i think this is a very good product .  chairman boehner and chairman thomas deserve a great deal of credit for the effort and hard work they have put into this .  i believe this is going to have ramifications for protecting our workers and making our companies more competitive in this global marketplace so we can increasing compete effectively and create jobs and protect jobs and defend the hardworking american people who are depending on these retirement plans to be there in their retirement years .  mr. speaker , i rise in strong support of this rule and of h.r. 2830 , the pension protection act of 2005 .  i sincerely appreciate the strong leadership today of mr. hastings , as he is certainly presenting this in a very positive manner .  i commend chairmen boehner and thomas for crafting just a comprehensive and necessary legislation .  this measure will both preserve and strengthen our private sector , employer sponsored retirement system for both current and former retirees .  this legislation , when enacted , will provide the most significant reform of our pension system since the initial passage of erisa in 1974 .  this legislation will require higher levels of funding for single employer plans and provide the tools necessary to trustees , both labor and management , of multi-employer plans to more effectively deal with distressed plans .  this legislation is the product of more than a year of hard work among congress , the executive branch and a broad coalition of employers , labor unions and retirement system advocates .  this coalition strongly supports passage of the pension protection act of 2005 , and it will go a long way toward preserving the benefits of millions of american workers and their families .  that is why it is so disheartening to see the democrats and their leader nancy pelosi continue their just say no obstructionism by urging their members to oppose this critical legislation .  rather than support pension reform that would aid american workers , the democratic leadership continues its cynical and destructive strategy of opposing all substantive legislation in a futile attempt to influence public opinion against the republican congress .  the opposition 's motives could not be more transparent on this issue .  employers , including auto makers , airlines and manufacturers , along with labor unions , including the united auto workers , carpenters , united food and commercial workers all support this reform measure and have urged all members of congress to support passage of h.r. 2830 .  for those members on the other side of the aisle who demonstrate courage and reject their leadership 's contemptuous call to oppose this legislation , you will be rewarded by the gratitude of your constituents and all americans for doing the right thing .  i urge all members to support retirement security reform and vote yes on h.r. 2830 .  madam speaker , i thank the gentleman for yielding me this time to address both the rule and the bill .  madam speaker , i rise in support of the rule and the bill .  and frankly , i never cease to be amazed by some of the discussion from the other side , for oftentimes they accurately identify the problem , and then completely ignore the solution .  madam speaker , traditional pension plans once the legacy of a lifetime of work are crumbling .  they are crumbling .  we are able to bring this bill to the floor today for swift passage because there is an ever-growing coalition of support behind it from labor and employer groups to other individuals who know acutely the problem that we have .  action by congress is necessary to protect the important retirement of all hardworking americans .  large and small businesses need changes to current law in order to have greater flexibility to help their employees plan for their financial security .  current plans , defined benefit plans primarily , have not adapted to the times .  they have used the same formula since their inception : the number of years worked multiplied by a certain amount of money .  this formula does not account for a changing marketplace , and it does not result in the most benefit for workers .  today , a retirement plan must be as dynamic as our society .  inflexibility for both employers and employees is imperative .  this pension protection act is a step in the right direction , and it is important that congress pass it .  a couple of the provisions i would like to highlight are reforms .  these are significant changes and require employers to make significant contributions to the plans to meet 100 percent of the funding target .  that is an improvement .  this bill provides for a permanent interest rate to more accurately measure liabilities .  that is an improvement .  it appropriately raises premiums that employers pay into the pbgc .  we understand and appreciate that the pbgc , that cushion between pension plans and the taxpayer , needs to be more financially secure .  it requires defined benefit plans to include detailed information and greater disclosures , and allows employees to receive better investment advice .  madam speaker , these are all improvements .  the other side says this allows employers to shirk their responsibilities .  frankly , that is just plain wrong .  without reform , the system may very well collapse under the weight of mounting deficits and the government and taxpayer bailouts are not fair for employers , they are not fair for employees , and they are not fair , certainly , for taxpayers .  americans expect us to solve difficult problems .  the pension protection act is one of those things that requires and deserves ours attention .  i urge my colleagues to support both the rule and the underlying bill .  i also look forward to the discussion with the chairman of the committee during the debate on the bill itself , and highlight the need for reform in the airline industry , which , in my area and across this nation , is so drastically calling out for reform .  madam speaker , would the chairman engage in a colloquy with me and my colleague , the gentleman from minnesota ( mr. kline )  , concerning the difficulties facing the airline industry , particularly in terms of assisting airlines and that they fulfill their pension promises to their employees ?  mr. speaker , i rise today in strong support of h.r. 2830 , the pension protection act of 2005 .  this bill addresses a serious issue facing our nation .  the ultimate enactment of pension reform must be a priority to this house and the congress .  i congratulate and thank chairman boehner and chairman thomas for crafting a comprehensive pension reform bill with so much support from the business and the labor communities .  this legislation represents a successful compromise that will help protect workers in the auto industry and also protect the major u.s. auto manufacturers against loss of promised benefits or plan terminations .  one area that remains to be addressed in conference is the issue of airline pension plans .  the cincinnati/northern kentucky airport is one of the nation 's busiest .  it is home to delta air lines ' second largest hub .  thousands of men and women in kentucky 's fourth district work for airlines .  they depend on the retirement benefits provided by the airline industry .  without a change in current law that allows air carriers with defined benefit plan obligations to make their pension payments over a longer period of time -- 20 years -- it is possible that some or all of these plans will be terminated , benefits reduced and liability shifted to the american taxpayer .  the airlines want to keep their promises to their employees .  they want to honor their obligations .  they do not want to terminate their pension plans nor to reduce benefits .  but , they need to be equipped with the tools necessary to have a fighting chance to keep those promises .  the senate airline pension language is carefully crafted to meet the particular concerns of all the major carriers and provide them with a 20 year period to meet their obligations .  although we are not addressing this specific issue today , i strongly support continued pursuit in conference of the senate-passed airline pension provision .  finally , i wish to thank my colleagues on the ways and means and education and workforce committees and their staff for the hard work that has brought us to this point today .  i urge all of my colleagues to vote in favor of final passage .  madam speaker , i rise in strong support of this bill .  this bill strengthens our nation 's retirement system and comes at a critical time as economic conditions are requiring companies to confront new challenges .  this legislation provides steps to help employers plan and manage finances accurately , to determine pension liabilities and to ensure pensions are funded and benefits are paid .  i want to discuss an important section of the bill regarding multi-employer pension plans .  under current law , multi-employer pension plans are loosely regulated and have few requirements for timely disclosure of information .  for the first time ever , beneficiaries and contributing employers of these multi-employer pension plans will have transparent information to make accurate funding decisions .  the legislation creates a system for identifying financially troubled plans and improving their funding status .  furthermore , new notice and disclosure requirements will provide participants with clearer and more specific financial information .  workers and retirees must be provided with an annual update on the plan 's assets , liabilities , financial condition and funding policies .  underfunded plans are required to file financial information with the pgbc and provide notice to workers and retirees .  existing financial disclosure documents are updated to provide more information , particularly about plan mergers and actuarial assumptions .  multi-employer plans must notify a contributing employer of their withdrawal liability upon request .  madam speaker , i urge colleagues to back this bill and take a very important opportunity to put employees ' pension plans on a solid foundation .  mr. speaker , i rise in strong support of this rule and the pension protection act .  over the past several years , we have all witnessed some disturbing occurrences as we have seen far too many hardworking americans contribute money into a pension plan , only to find their benefits dwindle or depleted entirely .  we must find ways to ensure that employers keep their promises to their retiring workers .  i believe we have done so in this bill .  chairman boehner and thomas are to be applauded for their determination to make this happen .  they have spent countless hours in negotiations with employers , employees , unions , and all other parties who have a dog in this fight .  the resulting bill we consider here today does exactly what its title says : it further protects the pensions of america 's workers .  as i see it , the two most important parts of the pension protection act are provisions to require more accountability and provisions that ensure fiscal responsibility .  this bill strengthens current law and requires more accountability on the part of employers in funding their workers ' benefit plans .  it requires employers to put more cash contributions into worker pension plans .  it closes loopholes allowing underfunded plans to skip pension benefits , and it calls for more transparency about the status of workers ' pension plans .  how can anyone oppose instilling more accountability into the pension system ?  the pension protection act is supported by a broad coalition of labor unions and employers like the united auto workers , the brotherhood of carpenters , the u.s. chamber of commerce , and the financial services roundtable .  the bill includes a broad package of multiemployer reforms sought by unions and employers .  in addition to these reforms , the bill ends excessive compensation for executives if an employer plan is severely underfunded .  it also insists on more accountability by prohibiting employers and unions from offering pension benefit increases when plans are already severely underfunded .  the pension benefit guaranty corporation is suffering from a $ 23 billion deficit .  unless we want all taxpayers to pony up and bail out the pbgc , we must demand reforms to place the defined benefit system on more solid ground .  we must continue to fight for fiscal responsibility .  i urge my colleagues to support this bill .  mr. speaker , by direction of the committee on rules , i call up house resolution 619 and ask for its immediate consideration .  mr. speaker , for the purpose of debate only , i yield the customary 30 minutes to the gentleman from massachusetts ( mr. mcgovern )  , pending which i yield myself such time as i may consume .  during consideration of this resolution , all time yielded is for the purpose of debate only .  mr. speaker , yesterday was an extraordinary day not only in the history of iraq but the history of the world .  we saw the third free and fair election take place in the country of iraq , and for the first time in the history of that nation we saw the people of iraq choose their own leaders .  on january 30 of this year , there were many people who thought it could not happen , there were many terrorist attacks , and it actually was slow in coming .  as you will recall , the pictures that we saw of voting stations where early on no one voted , but ultimately 8.5 million iraqis voted to put into place a coalition government that was charged with the task of fashioning a constitution , a constitution that would work to bring together the very disparate factions that exist within iraq , the three that we know of , the shia , the sunni , and the kurdish populations , and of course the other divisions that exist in the country .  mid-summer , we saw the work on that constitution proceed .  we saw the august date approach .  there were problems , difficulties .  and then we saw the october 15 election rapidly approach , and people from all over the world , including leaders of the u.s. forces there , were uncertain as to whether or not the iraqi people would in fact ratify their constitution .  mr. speaker , we saw a 64 percent voter turnout , roughly 10 million iraqis voting , and 78 percent of the people of iraq from throughout the country among all of those three disparate factions within the country came together and overwhelmingly , with a 78 percent vote , ratified that constitution .  the existence of that constitution called for parliamentary elections to take place , and for , as i said , the first time in the nation 's history we yesterday saw the iraqi people choose their own leaders , a 275-member parliamentary assembly .  mr. speaker , we do not know yet the exact outcome of that election , but there are a number of very important things we do know about yesterday 's election .  we thought that there would be wide-ranging terrorist attacks , when in fact there were very few if any difficulties with the election at all when it came to attacks .  we saw something that came as a great surprise to so many people , and that was a 70 percent voter turnout .  mr. speaker , 11 million iraqis voted in this election .  if one looks at where it is that we are headed , it is an amazing testament to what the united states of america and our coalition forces have done .  we , as a body , strongly support our troops ; and we , as a body , strongly support the mission of our troops .  mr. speaker , what i would like to do , at this point , is share with my colleagues the resolution that , if we approve this rule , will be considered .  it is a resolution introduced by the very distinguished chairman of the committee on international relations .  and i should say parenthetically that our thoughts and prayers are with chairman hyde right now as he is going through a very difficult situation in his family .  but in his absence , i know that from the international relations committee our colleague from miami ( ms. ros-lehtinen )  came before the rules committee last night and testified on behalf of this resolution ; and she was joined by the distinguished ranking member of the committee on international relations ( mr. lantos )  .  the resolution reads as follows , mr. speaker : expressing the commitment of the house of representatives to achieving victory in iraq .  whereas , the iraqi election of december 15 , 2005 , the first to take place under the newly ratified iraqi constitution , represented a crucial success in the establishment of a democratic constitutional order in iraq .  and whereas , iraqis who by the millions defied terrorist threats to vote , were protected by iraqi security forces with the help of united states and coalition forces .  now , therefore , be it resolved that : 1 .  the united states house of representatives is committed to achieving victory in iraq ; 2 .  the iraqi election of december 15 , 2005 , was a crucial victory for the iraqi people and iraq 's new democracy and a defeat for the terrorists who seek to destroy that democracy ; 3 .  the house of representatives encourages all americans to express solidarity with the iraqi people as they take another step toward their goal of a free , open , and democratic society ; 4 .  the successful iraqi election of december 15 , 2005 , required the presence of u.s. armed forces , u.s.-trained iraqi forces , and coalition forces ; 5 .  the continued presence of united states armed forces in iraq will be required only until iraqi forces can stand up so our forces can stand down , and no longer than is required for that purpose ; 6 .  setting an artificial timetable for the withdrawal of united states armed forces from iraq , or immediately terminating their deployment in iraq and redeploying them elsewhere in the region , is fundamentally inconsistent with achieving victory in iraq ; 7 .  the house of representatives recognizes and honors the tremendous sacrifices made by the members of the united states armed forces and their families , along with the members of iraqi and coalition forces ; and , 8 .  the house of representatives has unshakable confidence that with the support of the american people and the congress , the united states armed forces , along with the iraqi and coalition forces , shall achieve victory in iraq .  that is what house resolution 612 says , mr. speaker ; and it is very clear to me that an overwhelming majority of the house of representatives will be supportive of this effort .  now , i think that it is important for us to also look back at a number of the charges that have been leveled over the past couple of years .  there was no strategy , no plan for victory in iraq .  we have constantly heard that from many over the past several months .  i got , as i know all my colleagues did , this 35-page document that was put forward by the president as he began his campaign in the past several weeks to enlighten the american people on what our strategy for victory in iraq is .  now , there are many who believe that this is some great revelation , but the lead page of this 35-page document , mr. speaker , refers to a speech that was delivered 3 weeks , actually about 3 1/2 weeks , before we began our military engagement in iraq .  in february of 2003 , president bush said as follows : `` the united states has no intention of determining the precise form of iraq 's new government .  that choice belongs to the iraqi people .  yet , we will ensure that one brutal dictator is not replaced by another .  all iraqis must have a voice in the new government , and all citizens must have their rights protected .  rebuilding iraq will require a sustained commitment from many nations , including our own .  we will remain in iraq as long as necessary and not a day more. '' now , that was stated by president bush on february 26 of 2003 , and i commend this document to my colleagues , in which it refers to the fact that we have seen extraordinary achievements take place since we began our effort in iraq .  the impact that it is having on the region is underreported .  the positive salutary effect of what the united states of america , the iraqi security forces , and our coalition forces have done has had , i believe , an extraordinarily positive impact on nations like egypt that for the first time in its history held , as i was told by the defense minister of egypt , because of what we have done in iraq they held multicandidate elections ; in lebanon where we have seen people , because of what we have done in iraq , standing up for the cause of freedom say that they will give their lives to ensure that the syrians do not control their country .  so throughout the region we are seeing very important developments .  mr. speaker , it is also important to note that we continue to live in a very dangerous world , and that region of the world is particularly dangerous .  all one needs to do is look at the statement made most recently this week from iran 's leader about the continued quest towards undermining the cause of freedom and liberation and democracy .  mr. speaker , this resolution makes it very clear .  we congratulate the people of iraq .  we underscore the fact that the iraqi security forces , the united states of america and our coalition played a critical role in finally bringing about the self-determination which the people of iraq are now enjoying ; and it makes it clear that the region is still a very dangerous spot on our globe and that any kind of artificial timetable that were put into effect calling for our withdrawal would undermine the tremendous successes that we have been able to see over the past nearly 3 years and , i believe , could jeopardize the future of these people who are just now getting a taste of the kind of freedom that we take for granted .  with that , mr. speaker , i reserve the balance of my time .  mr. speaker , as i listen to these statements made about public opinion polls , i would like to point to my colleagues the abc news poll about which my friend referred .  seventy-one percent of the iraqis polled said that their lives were very good or quite good ; 61 percent reported the security situation is very good or quite good in the area where they reside ; 64 percent said they expect their lives to be much or somewhat better a year from now .  i know that my friend from ohio is introducing a resolution , he spoke about it earlier today , talking about the independence and the iraqis making a choice as far as our presence .  the iraqi president , jalal talabani , made it very clear in an editorial that he wrote in the wall street journal .  he said : `` a timetable will aid the terrorists and tell them that all they have to do is wait .  military plans must be flexible .  we should have the suppleness to respond to the often-changing level of terrorist threat. '' that is not an american military leader making that statement .  that is the president of iraq .  mr. speaker , i yield myself such time as i may consume to respond to my very good friend from california by saying , first and foremost , there is nothing ugly and divisive about the debate that we are about to undertake , that we are in the midst of right now , number one .  number two , i think it is important to note that while all of the recommendations that were made by the minority were rejected , i have just been given by the staff of the international relations committee an outline of those two recommendations that were made .  they were to entirely delete the resolved no .  6 clause in the resolution , which was the language that i read which says that we can not establish an artificial timetable for withdrawal , which is exactly what president talabani said in his piece , number one .  and , number two , it underscored the fact that there was a desire from the minority to change the goal of achieving victory to establishing stability in iraq .  mr. speaker , i think it is very important for us to note that there should be , in fact , complete bipartisanship in our goal to not have an artificial timetable complying with the request of our men and women on the ground there along with president talabani , as well as making sure that we achieve victory in iraq .  nothing , nothing , has to be divisive about this debate .  i am convinced , mr. speaker , that at the end of the day , an overwhelming majority of the house of representatives will support this , because we want to do more than simply pat our men and women in uniform on the back and pat the iraqi people on the back .  we want to talk about the importance of sustaining what took place yesterday for the future of iraq .  i will in just a moment .  we have got a limited amount of time .  i look forward to engaging my friend , but i promised the former secretary of state of michigan that i would yield 2 1/2 minutes to her .  at this point i would like to do that and then would look forward to any comments that my friend would offer .  absolutely .  i look forward to it .  will the gentleman yield ?  i have yielded 2 minutes to the gentleman .  i think he still has time .  i just would like to say that i believe that the resolution that has been brought forward is one which recognizes the directive , the call from the president of iraq .  it recognizes the sense of the men and women in uniform who are on the ground there .  and i believe that an overwhelming majority , and i will say to my friend , there may be some republicans who choose to vote against this measure .  i do n't know that every republican is going to vote in support of this resolution , but this resolution underscores the importance of victory in iraq .  mr. speaker , i reserve the balance of my time .  mr. speaker , i yield myself such time as i may consume to respond to my friend .  i will simply say that i believe we should do everything we can to pursue the deliberative process here .  i believe that the rules committee does that .  we have a management responsibility .  we bring resolutions through the rules committee .  if there is controversy , i believe that recognizing our strategy for victory in iraq is the right thing to do .  people in iraq , our men and women on the ground , recognize that .  i believe it is the right thing to do and i look forward to a strong and overwhelming bipartisan vote in support of this resolution .  mr. speaker , i reserve the balance of my time .  mr. speaker , i yield myself such time as i may consume .  i first say to my friend from texas ( mr. doggett )  that this notion that we are going to stay just as long as president bush wants us to stay and not a day longer , well , actually , what president bush has said is that we will stay as long as necessary and not a day longer .  and that was part of the initial strategy that was launched on his speech on the 26th of february 2003 .  and it is very , very clear that the president of iraq has said that any kind of artificial timetable would , in fact , jeopardize the prospect of democracy .  reclaiming my time , i will say that the president has said in that speech that we will remain in iraq as long as necessary and not 1 day longer .  that is very clear to me , and so it is obvious .  mr. speaker , may i inquire of the chair how much time is remaining ?  mr. speaker , i move the previous question on the resolution .  i thank the gentleman for yielding , and i rise in strong support of this rule and the underlying resolution as well , because this house must show our troops , the iraqi people , and our terrorist enemies that we are committed to achieving victory in iraq .  mr. speaker , just a couple of days ago , i spoke with a constituent of mine named pfc josh sparling .  josh serves in the 82nd airborne division with the 3rd of the 504th , also proudly known as the blue devils .  josh was wounded by an ied while serving with his unit in ramadi , iraq .  he is currently at walter reed hospital recuperating from surgery , with doctors working literally to save his leg .  when i talked to josh , he did not want to complain about his wounds nor the pain that they were causing him .  no , this american hero wanted to talk to me about the progress being made on the ground in iraq , and how well the new iraqi troops performed in the field , and how committed the iraqis were to reclaiming their country from the terrorists .  his proudest day in iraq was when he provided security in the iraqi election last october .  he watched thousands of iraqis singing and celebrating on their way to polling stations .  it made him proud that the american military was accomplishing their mission to spread peace and hope and freedom and democracy .  he was disappointed that he was not in iraq right now with his unit providing security for yesterday 's election and watching the left flank of his buddies .  mr. speaker , that is commitment .  that is dedication , what we expect and what we get from our brave men and women in uniform .  yesterday 's election was a great victory for the iraqi people , more proof of an historic pivot in that part of the world , and now is not the time to wave the white flag just as our iraqi allies begin the difficult business of forming a new democratic government .  we can not redeploy troops based on political concerns instead of needs on the ground to secure victory .  we must not let down all of our brave men and women in uniform who have served so remarkably .  we can not let down over 11 million iraqis who yesterday stuck a finger in the eye of the terrorists as they stuck their finger in that blue ink .  we can not give our terrorist enemies a victory which they can not achieve on the battleground .  we need to send a message , this house needs to send a message , today that we are committed to completing the mission .  vote `` yes '' on the rule and the underlying resolution .  i thank the chairman for yielding .  as a member of the international relations committee , i rise in strong support of this resolution and take a moment to express our prayers and good wishes to the author of this resolution , who labors at the side of his namesake at this very hour in a hospice in illinois .  it is extraordinary day today , mr. speaker , as a member of congress that has had the privilege to travel to operation iraqi freedom on three different occasions , the news that 11 million iraqis , with iraqis on point handling the security during these elections , 70 percent of iraqis turned out .  it was , in no uncertain terms , a victory for democracy in iraq .  and it is my privilege and honor to rise this morning on this floor in support of the rule and the underlying resolution that confirms this great day in the history of freedom , december 15 , 2005 , when millions of iraqis defied terrorists to say `` yes '' to democracy .  i stand also in support of the affirmative statements in this resolution that this house of representatives is committed to achieving victory in iraq and sees this election as a crucial victory for the iraqi people and a defeat for the terrorists in that country .  it is also in this resolution an effort to state emphatically the rejection of the wisdom of an artificial time line and also to recognize the extraordinary sacrifices made by members of the united states armed forces and their families .  it is about them that i rise especially today , mr. speaker .  this week at my office in muncie , indiana , a group of the citizens that i have the privilege of serving came to protest our military presence in iraq , to urge the withdrawal , as some have done and continue to do , of our forces from this nation .  and while it is their right to do so , let me say emphatically , it is my duty to stand with our commander in chief , to stand with our soldiers in the field , and to stand with the good people of iraq until we achieve a total victory for freedom in this nation .  i derive that sense of duty from seven names that i felt obligated to mention today .  they are the names of the soldiers that i represented until they stepped into eternity , who fell in operation iraqi freedom , from eastern indiana .  lance corporal matthew smith .  private shawn pahnke .  specialist chad keith .  staff sergeant frederick miller , jr .  sergeant robert colvill , jr .  specialist raymond white .  lance corporal scott zubowski .  these seven men did n't leave their post , and this congressman wo n't , either .  it is them and to their credit and to their grieving families that i rise in support of this resolution today .  it is the sacrifices of over 2 , 000 american soldiers who laid down their lives for the freedom that we saw demonstrated in the streets of every corner of iraq yesterday that i support this resolution .  mr. speaker , i am here today in support of the rule and the underlying resolution , in very strong support .  i am here as a member of congress .  i am here as a 31-year veteran of the army reserves and the national guard .  i am also proud to be the father of a son who served for a year in iraq .  i know firsthand of the progress that is being made there , along with other members of congress .  we should be proud that chairman hunter , his son served in the marines for a year in mosul .  mr. skelton had a son serve in afghanistan in the war on terrorism .  mr. taylor  of north carolina , mr. akin  of missouri , mr. kline  of minnesota , ms. ros-lehtinen  of florida , and mr. saxton  of new jersey , all of us have had family members who have participated in the global war on terror , and we are so proud of their successes .  additionally , i would tell you that i disagree with democratic leader pelosi .  i believe that her position is wrong .  i believe that proposing a withdrawal is giving your game plan ahead of time .  you do not do it in football ; you do not do it in politics .  and you do not do it in a time of war .  it is my view that we should understand that war is unpredictable .  of all times , this week 61 years ago we found out the unpredictability of war and that is the battle of bulge .  tens of thousands of german troops secretly were located in the ardennes forest , attacked our troops in luxembourg , in belgium , and in germany itself , and we lost 17 , 000 americans .  this could not be projected , this surprise attack .  we need to be prepared .  so i am very proud that indeed progress is being made .  our president has a wonderful plan of developing the iraqi security forces , developing the iraqi economy and the political situation , as we saw yesterday with the historic turnout of millions of iraqis to build a civil society .  and the bottom line is , it protects the american people .  this is exactly what america did after world war ii , developing the democratic society of japan which now is one of our great allies .  we have the same potential to protect american families now .  